# Season 1 Session 5

(00:00:00)
**Speaker 0**:    Graviton training session. This is our fifth graviton trainer. I hope you all have claimed your, if you haven't claimed your pops, please, you can DM me. And I will send the link for the trainings you've assisted because the idea is that at the end of the training, the people who can present their, their pops can enter into the organization that we are trying to build. That is an organization that aims to provide alternative dispute solution into the ecosystem. And we have first, we started with theories with theories of non-violent communication of a spiral dynamics of theories, of conflict management, theories of negotiation, and how to reach an agreement. Last session, we had an exercise, a role play to reach an agreement hearing in, in, in the training and in this training. I think it's a, a very special session because we have Olivia with us that is going to be our guest speaker.  

(00:01:21)
**Speaker 0**:    And she's someone who, from whom I've learned so much, and from the work that she's been doing in soft governance and trying to apply Austria principles is where like gravity found a place and like got leverage and, and supported self supported with, with the, with this working group. So she's going to talk to us about some of the insights that she has had leading this working group of soft governance and culture, and also some of the insights she has had from, from her experience and from her reading and studying and applying a from principles. So without no, no further ado li I, I give you the word.  

(00:02:17)
**Speaker 1**:    Thank you so much, Juan. I feel very, very honored to be here and very grateful to you also a little bit nervous, and I think this is a, this is a good space to feel vulnerable and settle in a little bit with what we're feeling. So I invite everyone silently to check in with yourself and how you're feeling in this moment. So I'm gonna share my screen. Why Gigi, can you mute please? I'm just getting, yeah. Sorry about that feedback. Thank you. Okay. So I put up a small presentation, but this is gonna be more of a talk. And if you have anything to say, and you wanna jump in at any moment, feel free to interrupt me. So soft governance and culture for who doesn't know soft governance. First is a, is a term that comes from hard governance. So now that we have so many on chain governance, we needed a term for what decisions happen off chain in this on chain environments that we're building. So soft government, soft governance deals with all the off chain governance and decisions and the understandings that we need to, to be a self-managing group and to be organized.  

(00:04:14)
**Speaker 1**:    So this has a lot to do with culture because we are cultural beings. We come from different cultural environments and especially having digital comments, digital organizations, where we're meeting from all over the world right now in this call, it brings this, this new framework that we need to take into consideration. So I'm gonna start talking about the three influential models that Ostrom presents to us for who is not familiar. This is governing the comments from IAR Ostrom. So she won the noble prize in 2009 for economics, for giving alternatives to this three influential models. So from this models, so much of our political and economical and social political systems were built on top of this models. And basically the inability we, they, they talk in different ways about a very similar problem. That is the free rider problem that we're gonna, we're still gonna get there. So the first maybe many of you have heard of already it's, it's a buzzword and the, and the crypto space. That is the tragedy of the comments, but what is the tragedy of the commons?  

(00:06:01)
**Speaker 1**:    Is it, it comes from Aris. This is actually a very old thought. And Aristotle had already stated that what is commons to the greatest number has the least care styled upon it. So, yeah, basically whenever value is to all that, we don't value this. And this has so many cultural implications we can start to think about because why do I only value something that is exclusive? Why do I only value something that is privileged? Why do we have this separation in the way we empower each other? So this is very much the construction of the power structures we have and who has more power, has more capacity of excluding others from something they have. And that's exactly what we're trying to do with the comments that is to not exclude others and still have beneficial outcome from this shared resources. And then another thing that stated about the tragedy of the comments is that wealth that is free for all is valued by no one, because he who is full hearty enough to wait for its proper time of views will only find that he has been taking by another.  

(00:07:40)
**Speaker 1**:    This is a concept that Austin works a lot and, and she calls it, wait, does a period of my mind discount rates. So, so you can have low discount rates and high discount rates, high discount rates. They mean that you are only looking for the short term benefit of whatever you're doing. And when you have low discount rates, is that you're, you're looking for the long term. So we've been trying to create systems where people culturally care long term about the wealth that is free and shared. So can wealth be free? Why is this so untangible in our minds? Why is this concept so crazy to understand, because we have been so conditioned to think that wealth is only something that is excludable. So my takes on this is that we are, why, why, why we don't care also about what is free? Why do we want to take it so quickly?  

(00:09:03)
**Speaker 1**:    Because maybe it won't be enough for us. So in my opinion, we are so far from decision making of most of the things in our life, or at least the idea of decision making is very far away that it becomes abstract. So if I can't make decisions about the, the water that I receive, I probably don't care so much about the provision of the water. Like if it's provided to me and I'm receiving it, I don't know what are the decisions that are around it. But I know that someone far away is taking care of this. This makes so many of the decisions abstract far away from me. So detached from this and detached from the understanding of how those resources come into being, I identify with their scarcity or with their, how do I say with their unrealistic abundance? So both of this are, are not so good and would lead to a tragedy of the comments, because if I understand all the work necessary to grab the water and put in the field that it's gonna make my food grow, I would care so much more about how much water I use.  

(00:10:43)
**Speaker 1**:    And I would see where the water is coming from. I would see how much there is available. And what is the effort with what is the effort attached to it? So, one thing we've been very careful to implement in the TC is that everyone feels very close to the decisions, to the issues that they would have to make decisions on. So I, we are in this process of understanding the rules and the boundaries, but we are doing this together because we are all gonna use from this resource. There are already so many resources that we are sharing collectively. So having this understanding of what are all the decisions I'm taking in the every day and decisions don't mean only like voting or deliberately saying yes or no to something. Decisions can also be more subtle and common conversations. You made a decision to come to this call today.  

(00:11:54)
**Speaker 1**:    How many decisions do you make in a day when you pick between eating an apple and a banana that are in front of you? You pick one of them because of some reason that, of course not of, not all of these reasons, you're gonna think about them, but some of them that are very influential on our steps, it's really important to bring them to our awareness. Therefore, you understand more, what is governing you. So by understanding the decisions I take, I understand also what, what are the decisions I can't make and why, and how far I am from them? Is there any, any questions on the tragedy of the comments or any thoughts on this, or I can pass to the, to the next one.  

(00:12:54)
**Speaker 1**:    Okay. So the second dilemma she talks about is the prisoners' dilemma. It's kind of a variant of the tragedy of the comments and it's by the same, and it's by the same author. So in the prisoner's dilemma, each player has a dominant strategy in the sense that the player is always better off choosing this strategy, no matter what the other player chooses. So imagine the example she gives a lot is of this farmers, and they have a certain number of cows that they can put in that field, but the field can only feed as many cows. So if they put a lot of cows and there's not enough food, the cows will die and they will not get the, the profit from what they would of like the milk or the meat, or what, how are they or relating with the cow. So it's that knowing that they have a limited resource that is the food for the cows, that they would both want, that they would both want to like maybe put three cows each and then they would, they would both get the full benefit of those cows.  

(00:14:25)
**Speaker 1**:    And the cows would be super well fed, but in a prisoner's dilemma, it's they call it a non-cooperative game. So there are many variants that are most around communication, that communication wasn't inserted in this game as a super important piece. So maybe they won't communicate. If they communicate, they don't have the understanding that they need to provide rules for how they're gonna share that space. Maybe they're too far away. The cows go like further than their, then, then their communication. And it ends up that one of them thinks, oh, if I put six cows here, all of my cows will eat very well, but then the other guy's cows won't have any of that food. But then if the other guy also thinks I'm just gonna put six cows here and my, my cows will eat very well. So what happens from both of them choosing the dominant strategy for each one of them is that the, the outcome for both is less optimal than if they had collaborated. But for some reason, they still don't choose to collaborate. And this is the paradox that, that so many scholars go crazy about. There's like 200,000 E essays about the prisoners' dilemma.  

(00:16:12)
**Speaker 1**:    Academics cannot understand why individually rational strategies lead to collective irrational outcomes, those challenges of fundamental faith that rational human beings can achieve rational results. And it talks a lot when I was reading this, it talks a lot about rational, rational, rational, and the, and the tragedy of the comments too. And the logic of collective action too. And, and those words started to be like annoying. Like the, the why, why does the human being is immediately attached to rationality? It's almost like what defers us from any other animal is that we are rational. But when I look up rational, the ophthalmology of the word comes from ratio that is quantitative measure. So we are talking about human beings that are complex systems on itself in a rational ratio, quantit quantitative way, and expecting the best outcome. When we only look to this variable and, and the state has only been looking to this variable and the, the firms have only been looking to this variable. And then it becomes like, oh my go this far on, on this, on this.  

(00:17:50)
**Speaker 1**:    So how, how does it look to cooperate beyond rational choices? What are other variables that are in place and how can we start adding qualitative variables to, to human interactions? Because there's so much of our interactions that are towards quality over quantity, and even in their relationship of this two guys and their farms, there are so much that wasn't considered of their relationship of their backgrounds, of their family situation. So many variables that could be more qualitative, that if we had that information, maybe creating another type of game where it would be optimal for both of them in an easy way, could be the best choice. So rationality often excludes very important variables of the human behavior. And this is a huge problem of theoretical work when it comes to practical implementation. And this is a lot what governing the commons is about, is a lot of empirical, like on the ground experiments to bring more insights than the limited theoretical material that we had so far to look into this. So the logic of collective action, that is the third one is, is talking mostly about the free rider problem. So it says one who cannot be excluded from obtaining the benefits of a collective good. Once the good is produced, has little incentive to contribute voluntarily to the provision of that. Good.  

(00:19:48)
**Speaker 1**:    So, yeah, it's that, that kind of thing of like when you were in school and the teacher would say, oh, go in groups of five people. And, and then there was always the people, or maybe you were this person, or like, there's always the one that will look for the nerds of the class and will say like, oh, I I'll go with them because then I don't have to do anything because they will do all for me. And because it's a group, everyone is getting the grades and, and there's always, this is such a classic dilemma, even with kids. So this makes me question even how systems have been built and how schools have been built and how grade systems have been built for this behavior to start coming up so early. So also also that is the, the guy that talks about the logic of collective action.  

(00:20:52)
**Speaker 1**:    He considers it an open question, whether intermediate size groups will or will not voluntarily provide collective benefits. And he's definition of it depends not on the number of actors involved, but on how noticeable each person's action are. So if everyone in that group in the class was being seen, would they have the same behavior, or if they could give contributions and other ways that is not the way that they find boring or that they're not excited about, would that change the dynamic of that group? What things they could create if other things were considered in this, in this way of looking at collaboration. So I'm thinking also the, the free writer problem made me think of being a hitchhiker. I hitchhiked so much in my life and, and that's like the, the literal being a free writer kind of example, you're on the road, you're getting in the car that you're not paying for that, for that trip.  

(00:22:15)
**Speaker 1**:    And you're meeting someone new. And the biggest thing for me was always like, I always felt like I needed to give something to the person that was giving me a, a ride. And this in this exchange is way more subjective than the value of like paying for, for a share ride or is just another value. So what are the subjectivities of pre writers that we are failing to see? And I think this could be a reflection for many of the communities that we see this happening. So much of what is, what is the value that we are failing on integrating? What, what are the multiple value flows that are happening in here? And I am focusing just on one and through this one avenue, everything around will fall and will collapse. So those are just questions to bring it up for us to reflect that our kind of, kind of open and connecting with the work that we've been, that we've been doing in the TC. And then another thing I thought was that transparency is not only to monitor and we'll get there to talk about transparency as a monitoring practice, but it is also to be seen. So what if we start shifting the perspective of like, oh, rules are so bad or monitoring is so bad to like, how can we create a place where people really feel seen? And because everything is transparent because everything is open. Therefore they want to collaborate. They feel they belong. They want to participate.  

(00:24:27)
**Speaker 1**:    Yeah. So finishing the three, the three dilemmas, tragedies, does anyone has any comments? Questions?  

(00:24:40)
**Speaker 2**:    I have a really hard, beautiful, beautiful, beautiful Olivia. And I'm sorry, I didn't make more of the book club meetings. I have a really hard time understanding what a free writer looks like in the context of open source software and a Dow. I mean, who, what, who are the free writers? And I know, cause we talk about it at one hive too, but I don't know who, who the free writers are. I don't, I don't know how to even look at that.  

(00:25:09)
**Speaker 1**:    Yeah, that's a good question. I think one way to look at it would be, for example, in one, in one hive that there is the source cred system, and a lot of people understood how to gain the system. This is a type of free of free writer because they are not necessarily contributing to the expansion of, of the, the, the comments of, or of the community, but they are taking the benefits from it. And then what I'm proposing is how could we integrate the, this type of behavior in a way that we might be missing the value that they are contributing? And how would that look like? Would it be like approaching some of these people in a certain way? I know this is unrealistic for a lot of people. Some people we wouldn't work to simply approach them, but what is the, the base structure that we need to have for people to feel comfortable participating from the very design and not, and not from like any type of impositions?  

(00:26:33)
**Speaker 2**:    Yeah. I, I feel like this might go to the radical acceptance that we've talked about before. And I, I, that helps a lot. That explanation helps a lot. I also, I also feel like, I feel like a lot of people when they, when they game the source cred, that they don't necessarily have the understanding of how the community actually works. And they're just kind of running in and seeing an opportunity to make money. And the, the radical acceptance might kind of bring them around. I, I can't say that I've seen that happen, but I feel like it should work.  

(00:27:10)
**Speaker 3**:    I don't wanna go too deep into it, but one idea is to kind of counter the behavior by welcoming it. And what, what Mede just said, actually, and taking that one step forward with radical inclusion. Normally I think there's a tendency with many behaviors to shame or to like, not accept, but if we rather rewarded these people for finding holes in this system and said, Hey, thank you so much. We're gonna give you some more tokens, cuz it's the exact opposite behavior than what you would expect, which would be exclusion and the community and kind of to ostracize these people. So if we actually made a place and kind of like judo or Aikido the behavior and said, we accept that and we've rewarded it, thanks for finding the whole system. So if we can leverage this kind of like behavior again, like against itself almost, or if that's coming across clearly through the acception,  

(00:28:07)
**Speaker 0**:    I also, I, sorry, I also want to, to compliment on something and is that Ostrom says that most of the times when we think about rules, we just think on what is forbidden and what is Perme. But she, she talks that is also good to add like a third wheel for making rules. That is what is required because if you only forbid and per then you let people free ride because there are no no requirements in order to stay in, in, in the, in the common pool resource or to benefit from it. So I also think that she SU suggests that it's not to say what can be done or what can be done, but also what are the requirements to join and stay in the collective and to keep profiting for me?  

(00:29:14)
**Speaker 1**:    Yeah, I think it's great that even just briefly talking about it, of looking into another perspective, there was already three suggestions of how we could do this. And I think this is the most amazing point of like, once we start opening a topic, then we open space for other alternatives to deal with it and we should always welcome those alternatives. And I'm taking notes of what you guys said, and we can start experimenting with it. And this is the beautiful thing of being in such a like diverse community that we can, we can afford experimenting things until a certain point, especially now in the cultural build and understanding so much what, what is the, the outcomes of the behaviors when they happen? So, yeah. I wanna just quickly introduce the, the eight principles. I know it's been like hammered in so many people's minds already, but I think it's interesting to like continue to always offer ways of exploring it because they are so rich and they are complex.  

(00:30:40)
**Speaker 1**:    So it's never just one, one route to take it. So the first principle is clearly defined boundaries and, and I think boundaries is, is something so important since the very personal level to, to bigger systems and to the macro level. So when you think about boundary of yourself, what are the boundaries of your body? They might be your skin or your hair. There is a little bit more out or the sound of your voice or how wide are the movements you can make. And there, there are so many layers to boundaries, right? It's not only there's, there's also the emotional boundaries, the yeah, the, the, the, the subjective and the objective boundaries. So if we, if we can find all of those for our bodies, imagine for a system. So in the system that we are at now that we are building, that is the, the TC, this is, this is very curious.  

(00:32:09)
**Speaker 1**:    It's like, what, what are the boundaries of this, of this organism it's, it's alive. And it, it keeps moving in very dynamic directions that we have to be very attentive, paying so much attention to understand these movements and compute them in a way that will inform everyone that is joining. So just like you find healthy for yourself, and you say, no, here, this is my space I I'm until here. And then you, you can go here or you can come closer. Or so this identification of boundaries in a complex system is, is also very dynamic. And it's been taking a lot of inputs from a lot of people involved, mostly all of the working groups that we've been understanding, like one said, like, what are the actions that are required? What is allowed? What is forbidden? What, what is it for the TC that is too much?  

(00:33:24)
**Speaker 1**:    What, what is that crosses the boundary of the TC? So this is for all of us to be aware of. And if there is any, any insights of those to communicate and to continue with this process of updating the boundaries that we have. So, and, and, and one last thing is that it's a lot easier for, for physical communities to find those boundaries and to find the boundaries of their resource systems. But for us, it's a little bit more challenging. So even, even the mediums we've been using, even the discord has its boundaries. Like there's a limit of people that can join here. There is a limit of actions you can take in this platforms and so on. So the second principle is congruence between appropriation and provision. This is often translated just as rules, but I think it has a nice depth into seeing into congruence between appropriation and provision.  

(00:34:43)
**Speaker 1**:    That is this balance to keep it regenerative. So what is coming in and what I'm utilizing and how this flow is happening? Am I appropriating more than the provision that is coming? Am I providing so much, and there's not enough movement for appropriation? So this optimal balance is, is, is, is what we really want is what we want to bring to the te community, especially how can we advance token engineering by providing so much for them to appropriate for us to appropriate. So for that, a certain, certain rules are needed. You can also call this rules, boundaries, but it is a certain shape of what can come in and how this resources are used for this continued flow to happen. The third principle is collective choice agreements. This requires to decision making, being available to everyone for this arrangements, sorry for this arrangements to be done by the people who will be affected by the arrangements they are making.  

(00:36:15)
**Speaker 1**:    So everyone has a say on whatever will affect the people that have a say and vice versa. And then principal four is monitoring. So I will jump into this light to talk about monitoring is, is really interesting the way she, she puts it, that when the rules and use conform to the design principles discussed in chapter three, three, that is people make their own agreements and individuals adopt contingent strategies, contingent strategies are this, this rules, those arrangements individuals are also motivated to monitor each other, to obtain the information they need to pursue this contingent strategy. So she says that people have an incentive to want to monitor each other, to look what, what everything is happening, because they will obtain information. And information is so valuable. I need to plug my computer. Sorry, one second.  

(00:37:42)
**Speaker 0**:    Also she, an important thing of monitoring is that monitors can be app the appropriators themselves that is more, more, much costly to have external monitors to monitor the, the, the, the provision and the appropriation of a CPR. So that if, if way more way less costly to have monitoring done for the, between the appreciators themselves.  

(00:38:17)
**Speaker 1**:    Yeah. Thanks Juan. And then the second point she brings is that if individuals being begin monitoring others and learn that others comply most of the time with a set of rules, they are more likely to be willing to adopt and or continue the rules, the contingent strategies. So this is a concept. She talks a lot about that. I like the, the how bold it is. She talks a lot about the, the suckers or the people that take the, how does she call it? The, yeah, there is, or, or you comply and everyone is complying, or then no one is complying just you. And then you become a sucker. So it's this idea of that. If others do, I'll also do. And she says that by, by incentivizing monitoring, like mutual monitoring, everyone monitoring each other, that you can learn that others are complying. So you feel more comfortable to comply as well. And because the rules were provided by the very people that are using them and monitoring them, you can change them as well. So if there is a rule that it's always being broken and there it, it doesn't work anymore. There is an incentive to look collectively into that rule, but because everyone is mutually monitoring, they will have this information. So this information is valuable data about the system that they all want to cultivate, because it will be a collective benefit for them.  

(00:40:16)
**Speaker 1**:    And then graduated sanctions. That is one of the roots of gravity and the importance of this graviton training and of all the work Huka is doing because with graduated sanctions, she also has something very beautiful about it. With graduated sanctions, you can have forgiving rules, you can see the provision that individuals made for this institution, for each other. You can see them as chances to forgive. And she mentions that in two separate parts of the book, that if individuals make honest mistakes or face personal problems that occasionally prevent them from following a rule, do not have to access, do not have access to mechanisms that will allow them to make up for their lack of performance in an acceptable way. Rules may come to be viewed as unfair and conformance rates may decline. I think it's very beautiful. There's this view of like, they want to make up, let them make up, let's have this rules, this graduated sanctions that don't the same sanction for something very small as for something very, very big.  

(00:41:41)
**Speaker 1**:    And then the other thing is the way in which rules are enforced is for giving of occasional lapses and errors and allows appropriate or to avoid the high costs that can result from rigid application of uniform rules in a changing and uncertain environment. So this is also very important to consider this as a variable, that it's a changing and uncertain environment and that the, even the word forgiving and making up brings such a human perspective to thinking of rules that already makes it feel like, oh, we, we all want to organize each other. We know that to organize ourselves and be autonomous in this system, we need some type of processes, boundaries, rules, mechanisms. So let's use this in our benefit and see this in our benefit. And I think this brings down a little bit, this very ramble way of looking into all the rules, because the rules from the firm or the rules from the state, they've been based on this three dilemmas, they've been based on not believing that we can cooperate.  

(00:43:12)
**Speaker 1**:    So it's very natural that we have a reactive rebel nature against them. But, but when we're talking about rules that are made by the people, for the people, for something that will be a collective benefit for all, it changes this, how we see ourselves inside of this inside of the system and then six conflict resolution mechanisms. So this is again, it's the whole purpose of gravity to provide accessible conflict management practices. And one once corrected me and corrected Ostrom that it's not conflict resolution, but it's conflict management because you might not resolve a conflict, but you have all the tools to manage it in the best way. And I see so many communities and I'm sure all of you as well, and maybe that's why you're here seeing so many conflicts, breaking communities apart and making like very amazing projects fail because we've been like denying this huge variable off a variable of being a human that are like so complex. We are, as we are way more complex than the systems that we are calling complex. And then number seven minimal recognition of rights to organize. So this is talking more in relation to external authorities. If we are providing our own rules, then where are we in inserted in? Do we have to comply to someone?  

(00:45:06)
**Speaker 1**:    What is this? So a lot of common pool resources, they fail because people were organizing themselves and then they are going against the state rules. And, and then there is a problem in this relationship. So how do we assure that we are like, okay, in this sense, and for this, we have the legal working group that we're looking into strategies for being, having minimal recognition of rights. And that's why we decided to use the commons tax risk association, because we are provided with that somehow to have a legal shield as a protection. And then number eight is nested enterprises. And this doesn't talk so much about nested that the, the TC as a whole is nested among other Dows from the bigger ecosystem. It can also refer to that, but it's mostly about how all of the principles are like its own enterprise nested within each other. So there are layers for them to happen. It's not one single source of management that will be responsible for everything. So I'm really confident we are doing that as well to be, to have this multiple points of organization of management, hence all of the working groups and leading with those as separate things that are nested within each other.  

(00:47:04)
**Speaker 1**:    Does, does anyone has any questions? So thank you.  

(00:47:26)
**Speaker 0**:    Yeah, I wanna agree.  

(00:47:29)
**Speaker 4**:    Oh, sorry. Go ahead.  

(00:47:31)
**Speaker 5**:    Okay. I just have a comment actually, and it's listening to better.  

(00:47:45)
**Speaker 4**:    Yeah. I just really appreciate thinking about these dilemmas in, in communities and, and I have participated in, in communities a lot of times, but I never thought so deeply the different problems that can arise and like trying to see that everybody's working together towards a common cause. And I could have benefited from thinking about this a long time ago.  

(00:48:33)
**Speaker 1**:    Thanks for sharing. So I will move a little bit the, the focus of, of our work into something that I think is super important, and that is very inaccessible. And the, in the, in the crypto space, in the digital space, maybe that is spaces for introspection. So I've been reading a lot about how we are in, we are in a, how do you say in a extra, extra extroverted society, like in a society that, that praises so much, but out of a balance passing the, the healthy point, the extrovert states, not, I'm not talking about personalities, but about states of being. So whenever you're super loud or funny, or even aggressive, all of the extroverted qualities you receive attention, and we've been leaving in this economy of the attention that is constantly trying to capture you. We we've been pooled by giving attention to so many different things.  

(00:50:18)
**Speaker 1**:    And many of them are so great. Of course, like there's so many amazing things that we all want to be a part of and be on top of. But this comes at a cost of a lot of these questions, not being asked. A lot of this perspectives, not being shift, a lot of our behavior, continuing to follow a way that has been following for so long, because many of the things that are capturing our attention continue to ground this, this narratives. So if we are trying to propose different narratives to ourselves and to change the perspectives, the safest place to go is inside and probably the, the last known place and the one that will help so much with conflict management, with understanding each other. So coming from self knowledge, as a portal to know the other, to understand the other, to put yourself in someone else's position, I, I used to say that acting is an exercise of empathy, because it is, it is using the tools of understanding the other, but in your own body and in your own self.  

(00:51:53)
**Speaker 1**:    And a lot of those moments, they bring great insights because you start to recognize your boundaries that we were speaking about before and understand what is yours and what is not. And there's so many times where we feel triggered about something, or we feel uncomfortable about something and they're not even us. They're not even ours. So looking with care and curiosity to ourselves helps us to look with care and curiosity to others. So I would love to propose an exercise that there is a, a type of theater that I like a lot that it's called BAU. It's a Japanese type of art. It's a little bit dark. If someone knows about it, I came postwar in, in Japan, but they, they used the body to reconnect with nature. And I think, and, and from a, a subjective Ima energetic way. And I think it makes sense that postwar, they would want to do something like that to express themselves and to look inside and to heal. And in conflict management, it's a lot about healing as well. So I want to propose, well, all your cameras are closed. I hope everyone feels comfortable about it in your own spaces. If you are in a public space and you can't stand up or walk a little bit, or if it's gonna feel weird and you're embarrassed, I dunno, you can do just the visualization of it, right where you are.  

(00:53:54)
**Speaker 1**:    So I will suggest that we stand. And for now, you can look at me, but soon you're gonna close your eyes. So make sure your feet is well planted in the floor. Then you have a straight posture, your, your loose, your, your knee starts slightly bend, stretch out a little bit, feel, feel your body feel in this comfortable position. You've been sitting for a while. And then now you're gonna scan your body. Look at your feet. Look, look at you, look at your feet, your knees, your hips, your chest, your arms, your hands, feel your head. You can massage a little bit, touch your face, and now you can close your eyes and just let the images pass. Don't judge them. Don't try. There's no right or wrong. Don't try. Don't overthink. Just give it a full breath to empty it up. And then I'll guide you.  

(00:55:51)
**Speaker 1**:    Now, the soul of your feet, that it's very grounded in the floor is gonna open up. Like there's two doors in the soul of your feet, one in each, and you open up and everything that is inside your body is gonna fall in the earth. All your blood, all your organs, all your bones, everything is falling, but you're stand. Don't worry about it. How does it feel when everything just like your, your body's empty? It's your skin that has an incredible force to hold you. Just like you are. Now. You can close the doors of your feet. Now that you're all empty. And then you're gonna open a door on top of your head.  

(00:56:58)
**Speaker 1**:    It's it's quite a wide door. So you open the top of your head, feel the air coming in and this empty body. And now it starts the rain it's raining so much. And the rain is touching the inside of your skin and it starts to fill your body up. What is the temperature of the rain? How does it feel when each drop touches the inside of your body? How fast are you feeling up? It's raining so much now. There's thunders standards. Can you feel the electricity inside? Is the water calm or is it turbulent? Let the rain feel all your body.  

(00:58:18)
**Speaker 1**:    You're all full of water. Now you can close the top of your head and feel, feel this body full of water. How is it? Does it, does it move? Is it easy to stand up? I hope it is. Cuz we're gonna do a little walk. How, how is it a step with water inside? Do you feel it bouncing in different parts of your body? Do you still feel the temperature? How is it to breathe with so much water inside, pay attention in your boundaries, the water fill in all the space inside of you. Can you feel it better?  

(01:00:01)
**Speaker 1**:    Now? You can slowly come back into standing still. If you can, you might be shaking a little bit, give a full breath, still feeling the weight off this water in the ground, and now you're gonna open the doors of your feet and now you're gonna close it. You're empty again. Stay empty for a second. And when you give a full breath, magically, all your bones, organs, blood muscles will come back into place and you can open your eyes in your time. And, and I'll propose a, a round of sharing. If you, if you don't want to share, it's okay. You can just pass when it comes to you and this, you, you, this is just like a little bit of a brief exercise that you can make in so many different ways. I used to make with snow and with fire and with Leafs. And there's all this qualities of something that enters your body and you have to deal with that. And that helps to understand the feelings that that touches. And, and maybe this was very brief, but it's also good to have like a, a, a journal practice after doing a body exercise, because there is a lot of insights that might I'll  

(01:02:51)
**Speaker 0**:    Thanks somehow. So that practice that I do that is on open, open that it has, like, it says that sometimes we load and we charge ourselves with memories that doesn't let energy flow through us. And sometimes we are charged with that old energy that doesn't let like new things come on. So it was, for me, it was very meaningful to like for a moment when I opened the door in my, in my feet, like feeling myself empty and then letting my myself like be filled by pure water. That is something that let energy flow through. Is it, it was like a really good exercise for me to like, to like, let some things go and, and, and understand some new things. I got a little bit distracted when I started working, but it was a really weird feeling to, to like feel myself filled with other things that is not the usual that I have in me. So is there anyone who wants to volunteer to, to talk?  

(01:04:29)
**Speaker 6**:    I can go next man. So when the water hit my brain, it felt really weird and it was, yeah, that wide open door. It was like a cleansing moment. It felt really good. I'll pass it to Mateo,  

(01:04:51)
**Speaker 7**:    Pass it back to everyone to that next  

(01:04:57)
**Speaker 8**:    I'll  

(01:04:58)
**Speaker 6**:    Go.  

(01:04:58)
**Speaker 1**:    I'll go ahead.  

(01:05:00)
**Speaker 8**:    Yeah. It felt really good to have my feet open and have everything fall out. I feel like there was some things that were stuck in there and it just really felt really good. I actually really felt everything coming out of me, blood and bones and organs and brain and everything. And then to have the filling on the inside felt amazing, really cold. It was cold water, but it was really refreshing, like jumping into a lake and it felt so good to be filled with that. And it was really weird walking. It felt like I couldn't like when I was walking, everything was actually slushing around and yeah, I really enjoyed this exercise. I've never done it like this. I have seen this in yoga in the forward doing a forward bend where you, you feel sort of the same door on your head, but you're upside down. So things are falling out of it in that case. But yeah, I think this is a great exercise for coming back into the body. I think this is something I needed, even just standing. I haven't even just stand up, stand it up for that long in a while. So really appreciate that. And I'll, I'll pass it over to Dan digital.  

(01:06:20)
**Speaker 4**:    Yes. Asked, thank you. I very much needed that. When you said open the doors up on the bottom of my feet, I was just like, whoa. That's like, I mean, I've, I've done a little bit of visualization and trying to work with energy, but opening the doors really, really did it for me. I don't know who hasn't gone.  

(01:06:53)
**Speaker 1**:    So met Verde. You wanted to speak?  

(01:06:57)
**Speaker 2**:    Yeah, it was, for me, it was like just a little bit warm water and no, this was perfect, but, but it, the what, like once I was full of the water, I, my organs felt like they wanted, they kept trying to come back in and I was like, no, you're staying out for now. I'm just full of water. You know, then the same thing with like, you know, like walking and it feeling like feeling the water moving around inside me, and I don't know who hasn't gone. I just thought it was gonna, my organs wanted to come back. As soon as I was full of water, the organs were like, oh yeah, we wanna come back.  
Speaker 10    01:07:35    It was incredible. Li I wa when I was feeling the, when it start to rain, I was feeling cold, but at the same time, like it was hitting my skin. And then when I get full, I was like moving like a tornado. And it was incredible. And I, and actually I think combined these things with the theory, it helps a lot to retain the content. And you did an amazing explaining of the content. And thank you so much.  
Speaker 11    01:08:06    I wanted to thank you. That was really moving as somebody who's, you know, worked on these different quadrants. I think the external experience so often gets forgotten. I was a training and development manager, and I can tell you, especially in human resources, we, we don't have a lot of self awareness and senses. So this was such a powerful exercise. And I appreciate you bringing that to the community. Thank you for having me.  

(01:08:39)
**Speaker 5**:    I'll go next. So I'll just add a little bit to what you could to grow said around. You know, I think we have this perception that our mental and physical states are disconnected and really they, they support each other. If we're not physically active or present in our physical sense, sometimes our mental capacity dwindle from it or suffers from it. And then through what, why G G said around sort of yoga, you know, there is many years where I did Bero yoga and there'd be these crazy positions you would be in. And the, you know, the, the final conclusion was like being at peace. Doesn't mean you're not in the midst of like really difficult times or hard work or impossible poses to hold. It just means that you're in that. And you're still calm in your heart, despite all the chaos and crazy around you or that you might be feeling you can hold on to the calm in your heart. And I felt like being present, you know, like having those, those doorways to let go of things is kind a trick or a key to staying calm in your heart. And I really actually appreciated that exercise. So thank you.  

(01:10:01)
**Speaker 3**:    Thanks, Olivia. That was really cool. I've done all kind of crazy practices. And I think this brings to light. One of the challenges of being in virtual community is to still maintain cuz it's so cerebral and heady and we're kind of these weird little floating head avatars. And I think maybe sometimes we say things that we wouldn't normally say or it's for me, I find it's harder to kind of like have that presence and like open curiosity, especially when maybe some other tabs are open. So yeah, I think this kind of like embodiment exercises are really powerful to, and so much of what I think we need in your discussion of like quantitative and qualitative is the challenge too, is like the qualitative is the intuition and the embodiment, and it's hard to recognize and like, how do we, like you said, like, how do we do this in a virtual community? So this is amazing. And yeah, I think getting in touch with the elements and these visualization practices are great practice to start and, and our time together. And it's just so refreshing. So after all this time on the screen and yeah, thank you. And you are such an incredible teacher, the way you explain things with your storytelling. It's really beautiful. So I've learned a lot. Thank you so much.  

(01:11:32)
**Speaker 0**:    Well, if anyone else wants to share, please you're welcome. Or then I am going give like a little bit of ending messages to this session, to this training. Okay. So I am going share my screen  

(01:11:58)
**Speaker 0**:    And yay. We, we are finalizing our fifth session. We are coming along. We are more far than, than, than, than near in our graviton training. And this week I saw this chapter of the Simpsons. I just love the Simpsons and I had to do this meme. I feel that somehow we are making like an apology class. Like it's why is it so hard to say, I'm sorry, and why is it so hard to forgive other people? Like sometimes it happens that a person tells that they are sorry, and we like, I don't believe that they are sorry. So why is it so hard? Not just to say the word, I'm sorry, but also to receive the word. So here in, in Groton training, we are also learning to, to say, I'm sorry, and to forgive and to understand that, well, we all have these boundaries.  

(01:13:04)
**Speaker 0**:    We all have these, these feelings. We all have these different experiences and like, they all are equal value, but none of them are the final truth because all of them are just our perception of what, of, of, of the reality that we are living. So, yes, I, I love this, this meme and I feel that somehow saying, sorry, and being in this kind of, of of spaces lets us to open our ourselves to, to, to the others. And as we did today, like also to let go think that somehow, sometimes we carry with ourselves and they are just more a burden than, than, than something that lets the energy flow through us. So yes, I, I wanted to share this meme with you today because this is like a very crazy exercise to be talking about. Apologies about feelings, about, about mindful communication. And we are all gathering here just to, to, to learn, to be in peace with ourselves and to learn, to be in peace with the other ones.  

(01:14:23)
**Speaker 0**:    And I also want to say that after this class, after this training on the sixth session, we are going to really deep dive on what is the process of gravity in, in the TC. So the next session is going to be to study the, the, the, the value proposition that we are making in the TC. And also like what will be the role of the Gravitant like a few, once we finish this training and what will be like our commitments and our requirements to, to, to be able to deliver the things we are, we are asking. And we are trying to, to provide, I am going to try to incorporate some of Olivia's slides here, because these are the slides that we have used for the training. And I just wanted to share to, to show also this, this really good slide, that is the, that Ostrom studied in her book and how like using the of Ostrom principles.  

(01:15:41)
**Speaker 0**:    She like analyzes what, what, why, and are they they're needed? And what are the conditions needed for enduring CPR institutions? And she, she frames it in this, in this beautiful, in this beautiful image where we can see like that all of the principles are important in order to, to, to fully have sustainable CPR institutions. Also, she talks about institutional change. That's something super interesting. And she talks about the benefits of, of proposed rules and also about the cost, the X Antico and the, so if, if, if we had to talk only about Ostrom's work, we, we would have a lot to talk about, but here we are making some intro introductions so that all of you can also research more on their, on their own, on their own. And yes, I will be sending the pop-ups to everyone. And I want to also thank a lot levy for her presentation today was really amazing. And I want to thank everyone for coming. I will be sending you the links for the pod and yes, let's let's so, so try to apply this in our everyday life and to not be so much loaded with things that, that are heavy to us, but try to be like more, more empty to, to let, to feel the energy that that is flowing through us and to not be afraid to say, I'm sorry. And also to not be afraid of forgive, to forgive anyone who's who has it. I'm sorry, because yes.  

(01:18:00)
**Speaker 0**:    It, it it's, it's not easy to say. I'm sorry. So when, when someone says it to you, we should like value it and, and not think like, like, yeah, they are doing it shallow in a shallow way just to do it is a big step for reconciliation and  

(01:18:25)
**Speaker 1**:    Juan,  

(01:18:34)
**Speaker 8**:    Thank you, Juan. 
