# Season 1 Session 7

(00:00:00)    
**Speaker 0**:    Session. And it's our number seven. The next session that we are going to have is we are going to have a role play. So this is like the last of the theoretical part of the, of the training. And I am really happy that like everyone has given so much attention and so much energy into this training. Also, the Popop for this and last week's session is the same. So that's why I haven't sent some of them, but I will be sending them. And today I want to present like the document that we have been writing and producing in, in gravity, because the idea after the end of this training is that we can have after the, a planning session to design a new roadmap and to plan our roadmap as, as a, as a, as a group, after the, the training is done. So well, I want to show you, like, what was the initial document where gravity like was what was first like sketch?  

(00:01:26)    
**Speaker 0**:    And it, it was this document. I mean, I, I, I invite all of you to like open these documents and to take some time to read them because it's like a work that we have been doing for months. And this is like the, the, where we first made the proposal name and why did we do it? How are we going to, to, to, to do gravity? And all of this is like the, the, the basis that let us to, to be doing this training right now. And it says like, what, we're, how we're going to do it. And we are trying to follow ele principles, especially four, five, and six. And here it is like all day, the, the information that is stands, how gravity, what was being built. Like we want to have transference human monitoring. And it's amazing that right now we have another group, another working group that is called transparency.  

(00:02:38)    
**Speaker 0**:    And that is like really close to the activities that gravity is doing and that they compliment each other because they are helping us in, in the, the part of the human monitoring and on the mutual monitoring. And then we are also also trying to, to, to help on the part of accountability and graduate extensions, and on the part of easy access for conflict management. So like gravity is, is, is, was, is born in the DC and is nurtured from the other working groups. As we have already had like levy from the soft go working group, presenting a session, both transparency, soft go legal and, and gravity are groups that work really close together. And with all the working groups. So like here you can, you can read what, what was the idea and how we were going to like, measure the, the scale of, of the sanctions and the scale of the problems and how we were going to promote a strategic nonviolent communication and the, the alternative dispute resolution mechanisms.  

(00:04:08)    
**Speaker 0**:    So like here, you can see where we gathered all the, all the ideas to do, to do what we are doing now. And we have here like draft for conflict management resolution program from the TC, which can eventually support other the community. And it says we could, we could have conflict management training once a year, each one ending with, with a conflict management certification. That is what we are doing. And like, we are following this, this steps and people who pass the trainees. And so this soft skills can be, can be part of this trusted group. So, yeah, it's like this plan that we have been following and is, is, is leading us to, to, to this moment with where we are right now, these are the values of the, and, and the principles of the organization that we saw last week. That is for social human centered safety, integrity, open source, non Hial, transparent account, accountable value driven.  

(00:05:10)    
**Speaker 0**:    So, and these are some of the reference that we had to, to propose the, the, the, the process of gravity, like one of the parties approaches to, to, to an alternative dispute solution center that in this case would be gravity and request a mediation. Gravity provides a list of names of available mediators from which the parties may elect the mediator, the mediator, the, the list will be done after this training, the list of gravity that will be available. The, the parties will provide gravity with the relevant documents pertaining to the dispute. And the gravity provides that information to the mediator. And yes, these are like the steps that we have been trying to follow. And you, you can see that this is not like the same, but we have been taking some orientation from, from other institutions.  

(00:06:11)    
**Speaker 0**:    So yes, the, then we have like some, so there, there's like a little bit of background on what we are doing on top of that. We have the gravity manifesto that is the, the manifesto of the working group. What is state, what is the, the goal that we are pursuing and what is the deadline of, of, of our, of our scope of our roadmap. And this is something that I want to share with you, because this is also really important for transparency, like for all the people to understand what is the manifesto, and this is updated. So this is something that we will be working on after the training here, you can see, like, what's our goal, trained members of the community and skills to promote non-violent communication, empathy, understanding, and management of conflict, to build a culture of wellbeing and trust between members of the community, and also manage conflict and support soft governance rules inside the TC improve the co code of conduct defined, graduated sanctions that as we saw are not like sanctions to punish more as sanctions to, to restore and like actions to teach people and to correct behavior. But in a very loving way, we also have been defining the role of the conflict mediator. That is the role of gravitons.  

(00:07:56)    
**Speaker 0**:    So, yes, this is something that we, we will have to review as a collective. And like, what is the success of our working group that people in the community recognize the cultural build and ed extensions, acting coherently to the values in the organization, but when there ares steps in assistance in of solutions, this, this map and in the 11th of March. So we ends next week after, after the eighth session. And I, I am proposing that after we, we, that in two weeks, when we have our first generation of graviton, we still gather at the same time to have like a hack session on what, like contributions from the, from the con from the gravitons can, can we use to design this real news, this new roadmap, because there are some things that we still like need to, to, to think about. Like, we need to schedule the next training that hopefully happens the same year.  

(00:09:16)    
**Speaker 0**:    We also need to define a marketing and relationship and a relationship strategy to search for other organizations and to promote our service between Dows so that we can yes. Provide the service. And also we have to find like fi finance seal plans, like we need to, to do financial planning, like, how are we going to sustain the work and how are we going to reward the gravitons? So this is like a very open discussion that I, I wouldn't like want to, to, to, to impose my own point of view, but rather I think that between the, the, the group of gravitas we can, we can reach to really good agreement.  

(00:10:12)    
**Speaker 0**:    Also, I would appreciate if you can put your name here in this list of members in, in the manifesto, so that we can see all the people that has been contributing to this, to this working group. Also, as I have been talking about transparency, there is this really amazing document that accepts and IBD. And I think that is a really amazing initiative that complements very well with gravity and is to have like outed of the working groups, because if we want to have, like, transparency's not only to say that we are transparent, but to have certain accountability methods that are public, where people can see what we are doing and which stages are we, are we, are we on which stages of our, of our roadmap are we? And the idea of this outage is that they are public to the organization, so that if anyone sees that the, the outed doesn't reflect the work that is being done in the, in the working group, they can like talk about it so that we can see what is happening and what was the lack of transparency in the working group or what, or not just like to investigate, but more to, to, to prevent, and to show that everything that we are doing is, is, is like open to, to review and that everyone can have access to all the information that is being made and produced in the TC.  

(00:12:11)    
**Speaker 0**:    And also that, that we ourselves can show the work that, that, that we, that we are doing, because transparency is, is, is really good also to promote the good things that we are doing. Transparency is not like to show the bad things that happen. No, it's like, it, it, it is like to, to, to promote and to, and to, and to invite people to, to be very communicative for the work that they've been doing, that, that they're doing to, to the whole community. So this is the, like the, the criteria and the, and the, that they are using. So does the, manifestor reflect the current goals of the working style of the team. And this was my answer. Like our, our current roadmap proposes the start of a conflict management platform, but we have to update the roadmap regarding the next steps after the hatch, like to offer conflict management service organization. And it's really important that we, as Gravitant also support this kind of jobs, because this is, these are jobs to, to, to promote trust in, in the, in the community and trust in the work that has been done and that, and that we have no problem of, of showing what we're doing.  

(00:13:44)    
**Speaker 0**:    So I, I am saying that it would be very important to have a hack session after the graviton trainings to prepare the new strategy for post, and also to include contribution from graviton. And like, until now the main, main task of the contributors is to participate in the gravity trainings and claim the pops. But after the, the, the graviton training is done, like you will have other responsibilities within the working group. And are you H encourage you to take responsibilities because this is something that we are promoting and that for the success of it, it needs like participation for, from, from, from multiple points of view and, and, and different people, and not just like unidirectional way of, of, of doing things. So, yes, I want to show what, what we are doing and what we are trying to be held accountable for. And, and that we are also monitoring ourselves.  

(00:14:55)    
**Speaker 0**:    And this is a very important issue also to, to put in practice Austral principles. We are monitoring ourselves. It's not an external entity who is monitoring our, our, our behavior or our, or our actions, what the, the, the ones that monitor our activities, our, our, ourselves here are also the notes of the working group calls that we had before starting this training. And here are the notes for, for the introductory session that we had, where people like shared a little bit about the, their themselves, and like what brought them there. So you can like, see that this, what we are doing is the, is, is the product of, of work that has been done through several months. And I really like thank all the people that have been working in, in these documents like grief levy do. Yes, because it's, it's also the reflect of the advice process that we have in this community that when we have that, when you have an idea, like other people like foster you to improve that idea and give those and give you like idea other ideas to handle, to how to ground your ideas, or give you very good questions that make you reflect on, on your initial thinking and how you can improve that.  

(00:16:33)    
**Speaker 0**:    So this is something really good from, for the community to, to provide this advice, service and this advice process.  

(00:16:46)    
**Speaker 0**:    So now I want to show what is going to be the form that we are going to fill for the mediation or conciliation sessions. And this is the, the mediation form. Like it's a very standard form. And the idea is that here we put the organization name, like, I don't know, argon and, or like, yes, any name or token engineering comments. And here we can know what is the organization. And this is the mediation session that we are going to lead, which are the participants, and that are involved. And these are some of the ground rules of, of the, the, the session. And it's like the party selling. They were to settle a dispute set up in one scheduled mediation. If the mediator agreed upon the parties cannot or does not accept an invitation to media, then the parties may agree on choosing another mediation from the graviton.  

(00:17:56)    
**Speaker 0**:    Lease. The mediators shall endeavor to assist the parties, to settle the dispute by agreement, and unless agreed otherwise the mediations, the mediators shall not educate the dispute, recommend that a solution to the dispute advise a party on the marriage of the dispute or negotiate a supplement of the dispute in the health of a party. The mediator shall have the discretion to conduct the mediation of the dispute in such manner as the mediator that they mean on unless otherwise agreed by, by reading, in reading, by the parties, the mediator shall be administered by the mediation shall be administered by the parties. The mediator, the mediator may communicate with the parties orderly or in writing together or individually, and may conven a meeting after consulting the parties, each party undertake to cooperate in good faith with the mediator in the conduct of the mediation of the dispute.  

(00:18:52)    
**Speaker 0**:    The mediation proceedings shall be confidential and conducted without reduced base basis. And the mediators shall not disclosure to any person other than a party, any information first obtained during the mediation of the dispute without the prior written consent of the parties on, or unless compelled by law to do so. So this is like a form that Gravitant, we will have, and for every mediation session or, or con or conation that we may have, we are going to take notes. We are going to be followed by this ground rules, and we are gonna take notes from the session. According to these steps, first, we are going to talk about feelings. This is, this, these steps are, are very coherent to the steps of non nonviolent communication. So I am assuming that observation is being done as a, as a previous step from the mediation and in the mediation we start with with an initial observation, and then we share feelings and we take notes from the feelings of the parts.  

(00:20:06)    
**Speaker 0**:    Then it it's important for every part to, to, to be, to feel heard and to value each, each one of the feelings of the parts, and to take the feelings as something valuable for the, for the, for the looking of the solution of the dispute and for identifying needs, then we, we move into identifying needs on, on what caused the, the initial situation and what are the needs that, that reflect that, that, that need to be addressed through, through the, through the dispute, like the dispute then reflect what are the, and, and the feelings then reflect what, what are the needs that, that are in, in like in the center of, of, of, of the, of the conflict so that we can like also then move to identify and to propose requests where each of the parties can give a little part and receive a little part so that we build the bridge between the zone of possible agreement.  

(00:21:29)    
**Speaker 0**:    Like then after we identified that, that the needs of each of the parties were where can, can, can be like, can be met. And, and that we identify what are the prior things for each of, one of them, then we, we try to formulate requests, like, what can you give and what, what, what can I give so that we can meet halfway? Then we would try to talk about what can we learn from this? Because after every dispute, there's something that we can learn and some good outcomes that, or insight points that we can take from, from that dispute. Then we can have like a reconciliation. That is something that I like promote, but that is also like depends of the, of how the GRA graviton feels about, about their process. They have certain autonomy on like, if they want to make a ritual of reconciliation, or if they want to do a meditation, or if they want to like, just like lead without, without like, if they don't know how to lead a, a, a, like a reconciliation, well, yeah, this is not imposed, but it's really good to wrap the, the, the, the issue with that, like to say, okay, now that we have talked all this, let's wrap this and let's like, move on with our life.  

(00:23:13)    
**Speaker 0**:    And the reconciliation that I propose is on open that you like already have heard me talk about it. And it's like to people to say to the other, thank you. I love you. Forgive me, or I forgive you. And I'm sorry. So just like pronouncing this between, between two parties, the, those, like that like breaks the ice and heals the wounds. So it's like a good way to end the session. And these are the, the only two topics that are like done by the, by the mediator, after the, the meeting. And is like, was there an agreement they have to say yes or no? And they describe the agreement if necessary, like, yeah. Like describe the, that what happened, not, not what happened, the solution and what, what, like each of the parties like gave and what each of the parties like received. So that we, we can, we can like state, like the, the, where is, where is that, or how is that, that bridge was built between, between the two parties and, yeah.  

(00:24:47)    
**Speaker 0**:    What, what, what was the, the, the, the agreement that was, that was taken in the, in the, in the situation. So this is a form that you, you will all have, and for when the moment is right, that you have to ate any session. And then we will have a spreadsheet where we will have only the information relating to if there is to the, if there was an agreement and what was the graviton that took the, the, that took the, the case, and some like links to follow the thread and like the date of, of the, of the agreement. So it it's like just a, a registry that we will have for, for, for the sessions that, and, and mediation services that we provide.  

(00:25:59)    
**Speaker 0**:    Do you have any questions? Okay. So I will continue. And why, why it is so important to receive the pop-ups and why is so important to, to, to certify ourselves as gravitons. And as, as I am saying, like, I, I, I am not making this with my, from, from what I think only, but there are reference that we have been using to, to promote this, this, this group. And one of this reference is the international mediation Institute, and what do they do? They first train the people and then make the people have experience on the training that they had. And then after they certify the people, the people is competent and, and able to provide the service of mediation. So this is like inter an international mediation Institute that is like that, like it's fully functional. And we are also like taking this Le this like career pathway, so that after the training, we will gain experience as, as, as ants. And then we will be able to provide this service to, to the centralized organizations. So, yes, that is the point of the, of the certification that we have taken time, that we have studied, that we have accepted certain requirements of the role and that we have, and that we are competent to provide the service that, that we say that we will provide, and this, the mediation in disputes.  

(00:28:10)    
**Speaker 0**:    And this is like the, the, the steps that, that, that we have been following to provide alternative dispute solution for dos. And as I said, it's like, we will have this training courses twice or three times a year. And the people who pass the training can be, become part of this trusted group of conflict solution supporters. This is something that I, I would like to talk with the gravitons like, when, when we finish this training and it's like, how are we going to promote Mary Tosi, meritocracy and good will, and, and how are we going to ha have our parameters of, of our, of our own do of, or even for the organization. And yes, the, the agreements are tracked to ensure accountability. That is the, the registry spreadsheet, but also that document is private. So I, I just show with you because there is nothing in that document, but after the, this graviton training, this, this document is going to be private.  

(00:29:31)    
**Speaker 0**:    So that only the can see our, our registry, it's going to be very private and that the conflict management process doesn't end on on the pro potential agreement, then we can have KPIs or follow up or strategies to like, keep up and for, for some of the conflicts or some of the situations that may arise. And, and that we can like see the progress that they have been having after the, the, the action of, of gravity and like to see even, and to have our own measurements of how, of the impact that we have, if, if how many conflicts can we like mediate? Or how many of, or what are the situations that are harder, or, yes, these are some like questions that, that will arise eventually. And that we will be that, that we will need to be prepared to, to, to ask ourselves and to look for answers.  

(00:30:46)    
**Speaker 0**:    And this is something really important, and that this is a very voluntary process that can be called by one of four, both parts, but to proceed, there should be willingness to add the, to address the issue by all parts involved and one part. And when one part doesn't recognize, or doesn't want to address the issue through gravity, we cannot force them to do it like this. This whole thing is based on dialogue and, and in communication and when, and, and in recognition of, of a possible agreement. But when, when the parts don't want to do that, then that is the boundary where we, where we like where we finish our, or where we can like push forward. And we will need to find what are going to be like the, the, the, the, the, the scaling methodologies that we are going to use. If, if a problem cannot be solved through gravity, like what, what is going to be that second layer that I, I show here, like, we are going to have an, an internal management layer, but how are we going to provide this, or what are going to be the, the institutions that we will rely on when, when the, the CAPA capabilities of handling the, the issue on an internal way, stay short when to, to, to a really complex situation.  

(00:32:30)    
**Speaker 0**:    So what I am saying here is that we still have a lot of work to do, and that the graviton training to end the gravity and training is not to end your activity and gravity, instead of that's to start the activity and gravity. And after this, we will also give start and, and to, to this process. And, and we will also like try to try to improve on what we have already been doing.  

(00:33:04)    
**Speaker 0**:    So with that, I just want to invite you to the next session that we will be having a practical case of a group conflict. And I have designed this activity that is the end of the world game. And the explanation time, I will take 10 minutes of the next call to, to, to explain a little bit that the world is, and you will have 45 minutes to find the best possible outcome for all of you. And each of you will receive a role that has to be played in the activity. Can you find a collective solution? You will have to form 45 to 50 minutes to, to, to make the activity. And these are the roles. Each role will have a handicap, a unique skill, an interest, an antagonist. And we, within, within those, like an, and they will also have like a, an account balance, a, a bank account balance. So with all that information, you will have to try to, to like, yes, save the life of, of all the possible or all the, the, like, yeah, the, the most people that, or in the most engineer ring way that we can find, or the best way that we can find to like, try to sell, to save this small population that we are going to have. So it's gonna be, it's gonna be really fun.  

(00:34:54)    
**Speaker 0**:    Do, do you have any questions in this moment?  

(00:35:04)    
**Speaker 1**:    So how are gonna, how are we gonna pick the roles? Are you gonna distribute them?  

(00:35:10)    
**Speaker 0**:    Yes, I am going to distribute them. I, I already made a spreadsheet and I, I have like, like the, the, the activity plan. I just, I will just DM them. Maybe I will DM them before the, the session so that you can like, study your, your, your role. And I will send them when I send the pops from this and the last session meeting that are the same. So, well, I think that is what I wanted to share for this session. If anyone wants to add something, this is the moment, or if not, we can end up and wrap up this session a little bit earlier than, than normal, because I know that we have a lot of work.  

(00:36:13)    
**Speaker 2**:    Thank you, Juan. 
