Speaker 0    00:00:02    Hi guys. I thought I had another hour, so I was participating in the other groups, but I can see now that that was a mistake. So yeah, I guess I'll just go with the slides as they are. And then I know the material pretty well, so I can answer any questions you might have, or hopefully will forgive me the, any kind of awkwardness and get going here, but I'm gonna, I'm gonna send the slide, which I have just upload it here and I'll put it into the gravity group and then I'll share my screen. So, okay. Gravity brings us together and this is the second graviton training. And what we're basically talking about here, and I'll be talking about today is, you know, some context about what the whole thing is doing. And then my basic role here is to be the, the great co contextualize. And so, so yeah, Anne Marie is asking about, this is the first session of the second graviton training. So that's basically what's going on. And so, yeah, so I was asked to sort of talk about myself initially, and I'm basically,  
Speaker 0    00:01:53    I'm a person who runs a, a yoga center. I give up everything I owned and lived in a Hindu monastery for about five years. And this was after spending a lot of time working in Silicon valley. And also I've worked in Seattle for Microsoft. And so all the big companies I've ever heard of, I've probably worked for them. This is kind of a list of my major things in my life. So I'm on the autism spectrum. I, I basically call myself a polymath because after years of consuming different, special interests, I've sort of acquired a number of things which over time have meant that I can do a lot of different things. Well, so I've been a computer geek since I was in eighth grade, taught myself machine language on an apple, two E also, you know, was a monk in a, in a yoga and tic lineage. It, she even under organization, if any of you ever taken a yoga teacher training course, my guru invented those. I'm a Sally yoga teacher, NVC practitioner, I've founded three non-violent communication groups, coach elite endurance athletes. My wife is a former endurance athlete as well.  
Speaker 0    00:03:20    Yeah, I'm a writer. I do graphic and web design. Some of you'll see some of the graphics that I've designed today. I'm in the trusted seed and training. Gravitons, I'm also married to a woman who has two degrees and some, some metals and some major competitions. So she's very inspiring. She's also a social justice advocate. And right now, as up dealing with the fairy Creek blockade, trying to save the last old growth rainforest, so incredible motivation and help for me. So in token engineering commons, we often talk about ourselves as a shelling point and I, I'm not sure that other people, everyone knows what a shelling point is, but the idea behind the token engineering commons is that we would become a shelling point for token engineering. That is to say, we are the people who other token engineers turn to and choose by default in the absence of communication or other options.  
Speaker 0    00:04:25    And so I've basically written this out to say that the, the, the idea behind gravity and, and the future gravity do is to generate within our members and the partner organizations who we service and the Dows that we speak to are kind of proactive. Anti-real organizational culture through robust sense, making shared mental models and language systems, which are important because often we spend a lot of time trying to figure out what let's say, the right programming languages for, you know, doing a particular project, but we often don't spend time coming up with shared mental models and, and languaging systems in which we can discuss how cultural things can work. And often, because we don't do that, certain kinds of conflict can arise and, or the erosion of trust, which is a huge part of what we are here to do is to create trust. And so also, you know, with human and ethical technology and services, that would bring us together even in the absence of communication.  
Speaker 0    00:05:37    So the whole purpose behind gravity is to find ways to, to exactly this as gravitons, it's important to kind of recognize that all people in our organizations contain a psychological shadow. And so our job is to be highly aware of the presence of these sort of when people are trying to do a positive thing, there is a kind of block Toone project mechanism, which can come up and to become aware of how those things reveal themselves, you know, before and after conflict is already arisen. So the point of being a graviton is to try to get to the point where you're creating trust and then manage it at the same time when those trust mechanisms have broken down. So we're thinking both preventatively and in terms of trying to work out how, how to respond to those things effectively when things do occur. And so the third three basic mechanisms that I've talked about, that, that we do, where we typically, when we're speaking about trust creation in a online situation like this, it's often true that we have sort of curated material that's come before us and we have moderators, and then we have cross pollination things which are happening.  
Speaker 0    00:07:10    And so there's actually a fair amount that you need to know as a graviton, to both figure out how to create trust and to deal with it once it's once bad things are happening. So at the point where we're here, kind of in the middle as moderators to assist with all three of these processes. So some basic skills for gravitons are number one is compassion, mindfulness, situational awareness, to understand what's going on to have really expansive thinking the ability to contextualize what's going on, and some clarity on action modes, which we'll get into in my second presentation, which will be number six in this series.  
Speaker 0    00:08:01    This is a kind of a graphic, which explains it all in context. There's a lot going on here. Again, you know, this was developed as a, with a view toward creating kind of a Dow behind this, but these are all the different aspects of things that we're talking about in terms of, you know, gravitons, and what's great about this is that we're actually going to be able to, as a graviton, you might feel drawn to one thing more than another. And so we will, we actually have book clubs around Ostrom's principles. We're gonna have a practice group and a book club around nonviolent communication. And those of you who are a little bit more sort of alternate distribution or dispute resolution and mediation, escalation, and eventually spinning up into the, the legal side of the picture, those folks who are interested in that, then you'll have these four different aspects to talk about. So primarily what I'd like to do is just cover them all in a broad way. And then talk specifically about the developmental thinking, how it can, can contextualize the rest of these things, any questions so far. Okay. So,  
Speaker 0    00:09:40    So part of the thing that I was asked to do is to talk about the, the unified vision. And gravitons in terms of each of these four principles, you'll notice that the four principles are ways of unifying, right? And so, so there are two hams of the, the human brain. You have the left brain, which is the divided way of thinking, which is typical in the, in the, the sort of centralized world, the centralized corporate world, the centralized banking world. It's a very divided narcissistic kind of approach to things where we externalize costs. And there's an awful lot of the things that cryptocurrencies and token engineers are sort of averse to in, in that universe. And the whole point of being a graviton is to be able to sort of heal things, right? So you take the, the divided stuff and, and bring them back together. So each of these principles is a methodology for unifying,  
Speaker 0    00:10:49    According to the different situations that we find ourselves in. And our primary role is to think in unified ways when other people cannot. And secondarily, then the role is to educate and expand on our own. And our group's ability to remain unified against a variety of potential stimuli. That is to say stimuli being things that would sort of seek to divide us. And this is a lifelong learning process, and it's also very generative. And, and I'll show you the, the generative almost cellular process that we're talking about with the curation moderation across pollination that you can develop in, in terms to see into the, the people who might be divided by conflict and to see through the situations that we find ourselves in. So this did not import very well. So I'm going to have to maybe bring it up in the original presentation to show it.  
Speaker 2    00:12:04    I just want to say that for the people assisting, I will be sending the pop-ups by DM to your discords. So yeah. Everyone can be aware that they will receive the link to claim for the participation on this session.  
Speaker 0    00:12:46    Okay. So I'm gonna re sure. My screen here. So yeah, principal a is basically the, the idea that all the other principles are contextualized into in terms of trust creation,  
Speaker 0    00:13:33    KK is a, is a, is a framework that in which we can understand what action mode is required. And that is to say, to create trust. You really have to respond appropriately to situations. So if you're responding to a complex situation, which you need to experiment with something that you assume is a simplified known thing, that's gonna tend to, to a road trust. Whereas if you're responding in a complex way to a complex problem, then that's appropriate action mode to work with. And so just having this, this kind of developmental thinking and contextual thinking really helps S spiral dynamics and integral theory is also extremely helpful in terms of when we get into non-violent communication with Dan.  
Speaker 0    00:14:28    One of the ways that you learn about non-violent communication is that you need to understand that it is actually something which is designed to prevent you from making an enemy image out of somebody and spiral dynamics. And integral theory is a, a very well developed developmental framework that enables you to, instead of looking at people who are behaving in a certain way and sort of judging them and, and othering them, you can say, well, this person is behaving out of a, sort of a red or blue or a green perspective. And, and I could see why they would do that instead of doing something else. And so it prevents, it prevents you from creating an enemy of a judge of people. And so we'll get into that in a little bit. And then in terms of, I, I think where we're headed a little bit in, in our organization is once you decentralize, then what do you do?  
Speaker 0    00:15:28    Right? So then how is it that you develop people individually in terms of the overall Dow space? And so we, as gravitons in many ways, by helping to bring people together, it, that is itself a kind of developmental process. And so, so developmental organizations, and I think we do a lot of this without explicitly calling ourselves this. We think about what it is that we want to reward and what we want to educate. And it's important to note that what a culture educates as what it becomes, so that, so in many ways, by educating gravitons, we find good ways to create trust creation and to resolve conflicts before they, they get out of hand. All of this takes place in, in context of a, kind of a meta modernist, meta modernist outlook, where we care about all the psychological health of all the participants in the, in our, in our systems. And so what I was saying before about, you know, okay, we've decentralized now, what a lot of people are just like yay decentralization. But the, there are, that actually creates the potential for a lot of trust creation mechanisms that can exist, that didn't exist in centralized systems. And it also creates a lot of potential places where conflict can arise. So just understanding the context in which all of our efforts here in the token engineering commons are arising is one of the main purposes of this sort of initial outlook.  
Speaker 0    00:17:19    I would also say that systems thinking versus complexity thinking is an interesting thing to keep in mind is graviton because a systems thinker is really gonna be people, somebody who kind of tops out at the, the good and best practice side of the picture, where the experimentation is kind of done. And now we just are left with the complexity of the system. That's the system stinker and a complexity thinker, people who are sort of willing to go down and down the road of doing experiments and not really knowing exactly what's happening. And so that's actually been the history of the token engineering coms up to now, and with this new gravity Dow and even the, the com or the coms do that's coming up, we're doing a lot of complexity thinking. And so it's important as gravitons to understand all of these contextual things to, to grasp what possible things you may find as you participate in conflicts and trust creation processes in the down space.  
Speaker 0    00:18:34    So this gets us into this cellular process of, of generating trust. And so almost always, you're gonna be in a situation where you're gonna need to iterate something. So the participation and iteration portions of this have a process to them. And each of them sort of begins with, Hey, there's this thing we're gonna do. And we typically promote that, and then there should be informed consent. And then we go through this process where we've taken that curated material, and we have somebody who's kind of moderating it, whether it's Griff or li or myself, or, or whatever. This can also apply in many ways to the process of, at we follow as gravitons in terms of moderation and, and that type of thing too. So I just thought I would show you this just because it should hopefully end up the, with a kind of a living wisdom out the other end of it.  
Speaker 0    00:19:38    Now, as a contextualize, the Aqua model here is what we're looking at. And each of these colors represents kind of a developmental altitude. And that is to say that there's a, what do you wanna say? A maturity as you go through certain kinds of systems and what I'll, what I'll explain to you is there's a kind of narrative framework that I use to talk about this in terms of, as a person is participating in the token engineering commons, you, you were your eye, your self and consciousness, and you were at a certain developmental level of whatever it is. And then you're like, okay, now I'm going to interact with this culture and worldview of the token engineering commons. And then that token engineering commons is going to create a social system and environment and a discord and a forum and all these different things. And even, you know, the gravity group itself is one of those social systems.  
Speaker 0    00:20:42    And so what basically happens after that is that we basically extr something. So it says brain and organism here, but really you could say that it is these various mental models and, and other things that we've created technologies and processes that we've created. And then those systems interact again with the individuals involved in them. So what you can see is that the, if, if you've got somebody who is coming in and this achiever self mentality, which is where a lot of cist things come from and you're then interacting with a pluralistic or an integral group, like the token engineering comments, the potential for conflict can exist there too, because then this person is typically going to think in scientific, rational ways. And there could be a, a conflict between, you know, any of these colors. It's also true that you can see that organizations will typically operate on a kind of cord, right?  
Speaker 0    00:21:48    So there's generally gonna be an anchor, something that's in the middle, and then they will work across these. So a lot of corporations work on kind of a, kind of a red, blue orange setup. And that's why there's all this kind of centralization and everything is because there's a kind of safety or safety and, and ancient nations kind of idea. And then corporate states is kind of the developmental social system that ends up being in that. That's why it doesn't really work with a lot of folks. And now, you know, people who want to participate in groups like token and engineering commons in a lot of Dow spaces are gonna be more value communities and integral commons than, than anything else. And some of the growing pains that you'll, you'll notice in the Dow spaces in our participants come from the sort of Mitch mismatch of the individual consciousness and its development with the, the aims of the, of both the culture of worldview and the social systems of those groups.  
Speaker 0    00:22:58    And so this is really helpful as a contextualize to know the potential situations that you could be going into. And so we're gonna talk about some other tools that can help in, in terms of this too. And one of those is polarity mapping. This is a very beautiful system, and there's a, a link to a, a training that I can give you the introductory video by itself is worth the, the price of admission. But yeah, maybe we can find a way to, you know, purchase the polarity mapping course as a group, but it's just very beautiful. So some of you might have seen the, the, the SWAT analysis in the past, and what this basically does is it creates a situation where you're, you have the ability to sort of resolve these polarities. So for example, the deconflict between safety and innovation is often a, a common problem. And so this gives you a way to, to work this kind of thing out. And it's a little bit too complex to, to describe only in this, in this one thing, but I think what we'll try to do along with NVC and further talks about spiral dynamics, we can have another, hopefully follow up to how to resolve polarities.  
Speaker 0    00:24:36    So now what we're currently working on is we're working on constructing the Dow with the other gravitons and, and participating Dows. And you guys not only are from getting PO apps, but also get to influence the future direction of the gravity Dow and what we're gonna work on. And then we've already shown the, some of these, some of these graphics to folks like ygg Anderson and Jeff Emett, who are creating this Dow Dow stuff. And so we'll have some supporting technical underpinnings for negotiating and finding common trust between Dows and I'm basically taking questions. Anything you'd like to add, Juan?  
Speaker 2    00:25:35    Yeah, for sure. Well, in, in, in, in gravity, the idea is to, to, to be able to bring communities and community members together, even in this agreement. And what we are trying to do is also to normalize, talking about conflicts, and that makes us more competent to deal with it. Like if we never talk about conflict in an organization, when conflict happens, everyone is gonna start running and pulling their hair, like without knowing what to do. And it's important to understand that in these type of organizations, we need to have some justice systems and that everywhere you go, where there is a social organization, or like a group of people there, there's gonna be a justice system. It can be an invisible justice system that no one talks about it. And like, it will be still a justice system, like not having a justice system is, is also a justice system.  
Speaker 2    00:26:55    But what we are trying to do is to recognize the importance of having a justice system to have yeah. Credibility and, and build trust over, over, over coordination in these type of communities. And we also think that, yeah, we can have several types of justice systems, but the justice system that we are trying to promote is based on mutual monitoring, because when we were reading Ostrom, she says like, it's very expensive to have like external monitors monitoring the actions of a, of, of a community. So what we are trying to do is to build competence within people in the community, so that the people inside the community act as peers supporting each other. And that's why we're developing these skills. And the training has like a lot of topics. And we are starting with that contextualization and like talking about creating trust, because like, without trust, you cannot solve conflict. You, you have to trust that there is a system that is not biased in order for you to, to rely that the, that, that system is going to be ju fair with you and that, and that it's not going to like, yeah, it, it, it's not going to, to like influence the outcome of, of, of a decision.  
Speaker 0    00:28:36    So, and, and those principles in particular are to care for the commons. And what you'll notice is out in the centralized world, there is these pockets of sort of greed and everything. And then, and then that is now extended off into the, the, the comments too. So you end up with the prisoners' dilemma and the tragedy of the comments and the, the fundamental principle of the, of token engineering and what this was founded on was, was those from principles, right? So the developmental thinking has come sort of after, as a contextualize for that, that sort of thing, but to care for the commons is part of, part of that process as well. But we don't just care about the, the, the commons we care about all the individual people. And that's why principal C exists where we talk in terms of, you know, nonviolent communication, holding space for signal inside of noise, avoiding enemy image creation, and, you know, making sure that we're dealing with people in a, in a humanistic fashion. Right. And what you'll notice is, as you move through this process is that the, the sort of legality and the formality of this thing sort of escalates as you start from principle a and go around to, to principle D.  
Speaker 0    00:30:00    But it's true that we, we need sort of larger contextualizing principles and on the trust creation side, you know, being able to understand all these different things in terms of the, the first principle being also able to care for the commons, which is that part, you know, sort of, if you have two people in a relationship, there's a third thing, which is in the middle, which is the comments, you know, so if you're married, you have yourself and your partner, and then you have all your shared relationship and property and kids and all these other things in between you and it's, it's caring for that. That is sort of principle B and a lot of that negotiation and, and other things as principal C. And then, you know, when things really aren't working, we then go into principal D but at each aspect of this, we're trying to transform the conflict into something which is greater so that we can get back to the, the first principle. So is that reasonable?  
Speaker 2    00:31:07    Yeah. And like, in, in, in this kind of organizations where, where there is so much of a techno logical focus, sometimes we forget about the humanity and the human side and the human aspect of it. And I feel that more and more, we, we are starting to talk about this because like, these kind of organizations are not only like enterprises, these kind of organizations are, are also communities and, and these important for community members to support each other. Because like, in this context where we are spending so much time with people, we cannot feel that we only work and that we don't know the people who, who, who we are working with. And like we only know we only see avatars and, and we don't know about, about what the other persons struggle is. And our intention with this kind of services is for people to request support in a variety of situations.  
Speaker 2    00:32:14    Not only we have conflict with other people, sometimes we have internal conflict or sometimes, yeah, we, we just want some advice of someone that can hear us in a safe space, and we need to develop that trust and that confident between people. And the idea is that the, the, the, the, the people that pass this training can be seen in the community as an easy access agent to, to, to, to request support in a variety of situations. And, and yeah, it is to, to, to enforce and to power empower the human, the human aspect of, of dos. We cannot have like, like organizations that exploit the human or that they are not comprehensive to human needs, but rather we, we need to have more comprehensive dos and, and, and, and, and for people to, to have an and, and, and joyful experience by participating.  
Speaker 0    00:33:22    Yeah. And so, in terms of sort of second order stuff, part of the thing to understand is that, that it, it gives you an advantage as an employee, as an employer, as a Dow to have this kind of thing, anchoring your culture, you know, and it's a really excellent skill both personally and professionally, and as a cultural context to, to sort of have this entire framework understood. So, is there anything else you have, Juan? Can I open it up to questions from folks?  
Speaker 2    00:34:03    Yeah. I, I just would like to say that also, and this is something that I'm going to talk in my next session, but that in this kind of organizations, we also reproduce and, and organization identity of false self, where like, everyone should be happy. Everyone should be always available to, to, to carry more load of work. And like, yeah. We, and, and sometimes we are false. Like we don't voice out our concerns. And the idea of having gravity in, in an organization is also to be able to, to, to have a safe space, to communicate and, and yeah. To talk about, about the things that, that normally we don't talk about and to feel that, that if something seems unfair, that, that there is people that is caring for, for, for the experience in, in people in their organization. And not only like, okay, we are going to exploit people and like, we only care for you because if you work for us, but if you stop working for, for us, yeah.  
Speaker 2    00:35:13    Like we don't care. Why not even, why did you stop like contributing? And yeah, I, I, I feel, and I, I, I, I think that we see a lot of conflicts between, between members in organizations, but it's not only important to, to be able to provide support, like in a professional way, like mediation when they dispute scale. But, and that's why we are starting with this, but it's also important to have like a cultural understanding and a cultural effort to, to build trust and to build relationships and to build credibility within, within the system. And, and, and, and that's why it's so important to, to, to have yeah. Safe spaces to, to, to, to, to integrate and, and, and to let people like feel that their concerns can be expressed, because if we don't foster feedback, or if we don't have safe spaces for people to communicate, there will be a lot of things that will happen. And, and we will, they, they will never be voiced out. Like people want, feel comfortable if they, if, if they don't have one, a safe space to communicate. And, and warranties of that, what they're communicating will be processes processed as, as a, as a, as an input to the system.  
Speaker 0    00:36:49    And one of the things you'll notice is if you looking at this kind of complicated graphic as trust creation is a general principle, it also has an impact on security. So if we're, if, for example, we're creating token engineers and improving the lives of token engineers and teaching from an ethical standpoint, like we do in many of our technical things that the, the point of this is that we're dealing with money here, right? We're, we're, we're making tokens and things. And trust creation is almost the most important thing about this thing that we're talking about. Right. And so to having the, the reason why people put their money in banks is because they trust, they have a level of trust about that. And so, so, you know, it's not just for the participation in the token engineering or an individual DW, but also just for the overall, you know, sort of ethical culture and promotion of ethical culture within this particular area of, of, you know, work. So any other questions at this time let's maybe Livy or some of the, your words can start.  
Speaker 4    00:38:03    Hello? Hi. Hi, my name is, hi. My name is Jovian. I just wanted to, Hey, I just wanted to second, I think it's Juan what Juan was saying. And I really feel like when there is a conflict, when there is a, what we see as a conflict, it's the opening up of a space for complexity to be added into the perspective, unfortunate the collective perspective. Unfortunately, like if you look at it at like in a binary, you're like, oh, it's a failure. Like it's a failure for us to keep moving along with the same rules and expectations as we had before, or it's a failure in like universal adoption of the rules and expectations which we had, but a conflict is actually, I think, a hugely valuable opportunity to open up a, a new space to like grow a root up or down or sideways or, or, or in a new direction towards creating a more complex perspective. So unfortunately, unfortunately, the hurriedness to resolve or brush under the rug, or decide a winner or loser, or to stay in this kind of binary, like approach, like the rush, the roughness and the efficiency. That's like the mode that people are usually in. So, yeah, just like giving someone an opportunity to view this as a valuable, a valuable moment where, where like the organization can grow and it's collective intelligence can become more complex, I think is a really positive, positive thing. So I'm really glad you guys are doing this. Thank you.  
Speaker 0    00:39:50    Well, and, and that's a very good observation. One of the things that you'll get, my second version of my training is the, this is viewpoint on the connection framework. Can you guys see, just sync says CIN now on it.  
Speaker 4    00:40:12    Yeah. Showing  
Speaker 0    00:40:13    Screen. So, yeah. So this is actually what I was saying before about, you know, gravitons, we'll figure out what are the different action modes that sort of work in terms of this and exactly what you just said is, you know, allowing for complexity. Right. So what, what often we, what often has happened is, is that we have these known familiar bucketized rigid version of things. And if you don't fit into that, then you end up falling off of this cliff and end up in chaos. But then if you can collect yourself and start experimenting with things, you know, then you can actually find solutions and then bring them back up and make more space in the, in the known and familiar. And I think in many ways, the, the token engineering comments, culture overall is working really hard to, you know, to kind of work backwards in this way. So even though things might seem chaotic in this space, we're experimenting on it, we're creating knowable things that might seem complicated and then bringing them a really tall ladder to make them clear and easier and simpler to understand. So, and that's the Dow space in general. So like, so, you know, that's our job as graviton is to help those people who are doing the, the complex. And so it's very beautiful that you actually recognize that. So, so we'll get into that in, in session six that I'm teaching as well. Any other questions or comments?  
Speaker 5    00:41:49    I have a question.  
Speaker 0    00:41:51    Yeah.  
Speaker 5    00:41:52    And I'm new to all of this. Like I'm learning about, I didn't know what a bow was. I had to look that up a few days ago in preparation for come into this, I'm loving what I'm reading. I'm really excited to be a part of it. I appreciate dull, like, you know, putting this together. I'm also just curious the way that you're presenting this, I guess, is that I'm trying to figure out if, if gravity or like, if all of this will be more applicable or make more sense if we're also part of another decentralized organization, like, like this would, this is my first interaction with this whole idea in general. So I don't, I guess I just wanted to, maybe if you could address that or if this something is something that can stand alone in terms of my initial, I,  
Speaker 0    00:42:31    My job initially here is just to give the highest level of context. Each one of these four principles has a massive amount of really cool and very practically applicable things. You know, so Ostrom's principles, for example, is extremely useful in sorting out how to avoid things like the prisoners dilemma in your or R organizations, how to speak about and resolve conflicts, both interpersonally, but also in other ways, NBC can help. And, and cool thing is, is that each one of these things kind of cross pollinate. So the developmental thinking and, and non-violent communication are very related. Once you understand them the same thing with nonviolent communication and Ostrom's principles in terms of, you know, low cost, a conflict resolution, the lowest cost conflict resolution is that you educate everyone to work on conflict resolution, and then you guys can all do it yourselves without, without having to have a third party. Do you see what I mean? And so, so you can see that, that, that all of these have incredible amounts of relationships to each other. And what I said before is if you're in a Dow, what the Dow educates is, what it becomes and what it values, right? And so if you take a look at the, any other do might be in, you can very clearly see what's their priority is by, based on what they spend their time educating. Right. And so what we're trying to do, and actually  
Speaker 0    00:44:03    Go  
Speaker 5    00:44:04    Ahead if I'm sorry to interrupt, but I'm just like, that's actually where the, my question is, is like what I'm, I'm not a part of any other doubts like this, I guess I don't wanna make sure I can't quite tell if this is intended to be something where we're expected as gravitons to be in a Dow outside of gravity.  
Speaker 2    00:44:20    Yeah. I, and we're good. No, I can answer. I can answer that. And yeah, here in, in the participating people, there are people from a lot of Dows and it's great because we are kinda like spreading this message through other Dows. But if you are new to the do space, this like becoming a graviton can also help you enter other doubts because you will gain like these tools, which will let you contribute in this cultural aspect of other doubts. So yeah, if right now you're not part, part of a Dow after becoming a graviton, for sure. You will find some community where you can like contribute. And, and I also, one of the things that I love about gravity it's also that it is like an alternative for people who is not so tech related to, to collaborate in, in Dows because like, sometimes we only think like Dows are like, yeah, for the, for the tech guys, but it's also important to have this social aspect.  
Speaker 2    00:45:43    And when, when, when you get trained in, in, in, in this skills, like any doubt that would love to implement gravity, you, you could like collaborate with them. And, and yeah. From, from, from a human side and not from only from the tech side, because yeah, like, and, and this is a distinction that, that I love that the TC makes and is, is that we have soft, soft governance and, and, and like hard governance. We have like this software governance where like, things are so hard to change because they are in code and they are like, like a te, but that technology is put into place within a human organization. So it, like, you can have a perfect code, but if the community that, that is going to deploy that code is broken, like the code is just going to be like, yeah. Bits in the cloud.  
Speaker 2    00:46:48    But the idea is, is to be able to, to empower these, these kind of new institutions so that they are not only better than our regular institutions in the sharpness that they have, like in how much, how many transactions can they have per second, but also that we can have these institutions to be more comprehensive to human needs than the ones that we have right now. And that's why it's so important to have support in, in a community. Like, I cannot see myself collaborating in a community where I am only seen like as a number or as a product. And like, where I, I cannot talk to the people about maybe if I have a, a, a conflict in my life and like, yeah, like, and, and, and feel supported because like we, when, when, when we are the most productive is, is when we are, when we feel fulfilled, when we feel comfortable and, and this is also something that can help to, to improve the, the workflow of organizations, because sometimes we, we see that the organization is having like a roadmap and then as a conflict happens, and then everything gets screwed.  
Speaker 2    00:48:04    So the idea with having projects like gravity in inside doubts is that, okay, you can have a conflict that can create polarizing a scenario, but there will be people inside the community that will be working so that the community doesn't split in the first decision. Maybe if the, if, if the best decision is to split, that that would be something that would be like, like a lot put, put a lot of thought, but it's not like the first decision out of our rage instinct of, yeah.  
Speaker 0    00:48:40    So to, to, to answer your very specific question, this is also the first hour I ever participated in. I had no idea if I was ever gonna be able to contribute anything to this group. I'm almost famously clueless about cryptocurrency in general, but somehow, because of the nature of the cultural context that I found here, it's, it's, I mean, you'll notice it around the outside of this is kind of radical inclusion, right? This idea that people can come and show up, and it's not just about conflicts. It's also about how do you actually absorb people with a, a really diverse set of skills into your community. And that makes it inherently better as a community. And, you know, so yeah, I'm, I'm a little surprised, frankly, that I'm able to participate in, in, in any real way. So, so I've tried to participate in other Dows, but I just keep coming back to here and I find myself lost, and I find, I find that the costs of participating in other Dows can be high. And I continue to be included more here than perhaps in the other Dows that I've tried to participate in. So, yeah, I hope that answered your question. Thank you so much. RTU one, is it possible to ask another question? Yep. May I ask one more? Okay. Well, first of all, thank you so much for the clear introduction. It's, it's been very enlighting. I'd like to ask a question about what your opinion is about the decentralized software on the making  
Speaker 6    00:50:27    For conflict resolution, such as Claro, for example, how that maybe can be in addition or, or maybe have another view on it. And, and if that's, yeah. If that would also be helpful.  
Speaker 2    00:50:42    I, I love, yeah. We to answer that question, right.  
Speaker 6    00:50:46    That  
Speaker 2    00:50:46    Go ahead. Yeah. It's like there are different dispute resolution mechanisms and Claro applies arbitration where the third part acts like a judge and like states who the winner is in a conflict. But the change we want to have is to is, is that we foster self C compos conflict management. And that is that the outcomes of the, of the dispute are on like our, on the parties. They, they depend on the parties. Like we, as we, we are more like mediators, like we facilitate dialogue and we facilitate that the parties like make an agreement, but we cannot enforce any solution. And yeah, that's the main difference between other dispute resolution mechanisms. Because when, when you have like, in these traditional justice systems, you have a clear winner and a clear loser. And that, that also states in the duality of like winner losing left, right. But through gravity, what we want to foster is communication and dialogue, so that we can have more integrative solutions to, to, to disputes instead of like one clear winner and one clear loser. And like that fosters also adversarial positions like you are my enemy, but the idea of this of, of gravity is to be able to stand from a non-ad adversarial point to search for, for, for common beneficial solutions for the parties.  
Speaker 6    00:52:34    So dialogue before arbitration.  
Speaker 2    00:52:38    Yeah. Like if, if, if, if parties don't reach an agreement through dialogue, we can scale to arbitration mechanisms like Claro, as you're saying, but this is like a, a, a step so that there's no, not a clear winner or a clear loser, but rather than, than that, we can find better solutions through compromise. It's, it's based a lot in, in, also in the prisoners dilemma. Like if you have few communication, you are, you're going to, or few information, you're going to take a, a decision that can be rushed. But if we foster dialogue, what we want is to, to like more, make the conflict more clear, to be able to see other alternatives and yeah. And, and through coordination search for a, for an alternative that can be, be beneficial for both sides and not only for one side over the, the other.  
Speaker 0    00:53:37    Yeah. And it's also true that you can see that this is heavily weighted toward making absolutely every effort to avoid that kind of thing. Do you know what I mean? Like three out of our four things, it's incredibly detailed ways of, of attempting to avoid getting to that point. And obviously there are situations that people just come in game systems and, and create conflict or advantage things or leverage things or exploit. That's very clear. Thank you. You know? Yeah.  
Speaker 7    00:54:14    I would like to say a comment and to questions. If I may, we'll be very  
Speaker 2    00:54:19    Quickly, please. Yes.  
Speaker 7    00:54:21    Thank you very much. I'm very happy to see the avatars that I already know as people. So thanks for inviting. And I also am very happy to be here because I see the potential of gravity as a training for cyber physical commons prior than just for the house. And this is something that may resonate with what Nick was saying at the beginning. So I say cyber physical, because the gravity tone training that you are explaining here is like the sheriff role or the GRA the graviton role is like the sheriff role within cooperatives, which responsibilities to monitor the code of conduct. But in cooperative, they lack the training and function to manage conflicts as well as the function to create, maintain, and re regenerate trust. So, yeah, I been very excited to learn and apply this within competitive community that I am part of as well in other. And thanks for inviting. And  
Speaker 0    00:55:16    I have to, I have some other resources and books for you around that from the foundation for intentional community and, and other stuff. So I'm aware of those things too. I just didn't include them here as resources.  
Speaker 7    00:55:31    Great. That that would be awesome. Two questions. What should we expect, like from, are there any goals art by, for every session? I say this because it helps me a lot to know the scope of every session, like in goals. So I know with questions to frame in my mind when, when learning and another thing is, will the, will the gravity tone develop this, the gravity doubt components that you are showing us skills? Those are my, and, and I, I, I lost the documentation regarding the course. So if you could share it again, one with me will be great.  
Speaker 0    00:56:19    I think what you're referring to is gonna be in the, in the gravity channel as far as links, and what's gonna be in each, each individual training. So you can have a look at that. And, and each actually, I think the way we framed it was, there's some, some things you can watch beforehand and then there's gonna be the training and then there's some follow up from that. So it's a pretty comprehensive document that includes a lot of this stuff that you're asking about.  
Speaker 7    00:56:51    Okay, great. Thank you. I will look at that.  
Speaker 0    00:56:55    Okay. So we're at the top of the hour, I'm willing to hang around for another few minutes, if you have further questions or anything, but if you guys have other groups to get to, then we're happy to let you go.  
Speaker 4    00:57:12    Can I be heard,  
Speaker 0    00:57:14    Please, please?  
Speaker 4    00:57:18    Hey, it's was just, yeah, I just wanted to say something. I heard, I heard the term earlier and I, I noticed it raised a flag for me. Okay. And it was the term sheriff, and I just wanna like, yeah, I wanna engage in this space and, and be open to communicating about language when it comes up. I wanna be mindful all of this work that none of us are policing. Yeah. And carrying that sort of conditioning. Like, I just wanna like name it as I'm feeling it. That's  
Speaker 0    00:57:54    All. Yeah. That's no, that's very good. And I was gonna bring that up. It, this isn't enforcement mechanism, it's in fact, it's, I think we've consciously chosen to not be an enforcement mechanism and to allow the individual Dows or participants in the token engineering commons. We, we do have certain our own for enforcement thing, but I would say that that's a little bit separate from the main intention of gravity. So  
Speaker 1    00:58:23    The,  
Speaker 4    00:58:23    The, I would love to say something.  
Speaker 0    00:58:25    Yeah. Yep.  
Speaker 4    00:58:26    Okay. Hi, this is Ryder. Thank you so much, AEs. Cuz hi, cuz my flag also went up and I just appreciate that being named it's hard to slow things down sometimes, especially with so much information. Thank you to our presenters today. I also wanna add that like, I don't know who used the word sheriff, but it just really points to me. It's a reminder of like living in a, in a police, a police environment and like that we don't have, sometimes we might not have the right examples or like metaphors to use to describe what a graviton is because we don't see a lot of it in the mainstream. So I just wanted to like, there's no like wrongdoing there, but it's just, it's a Testament to living in, in a police state. So, and I, it's interesting cause I'm in a international space and I'm an American, so I'm like, I'm, I'm wondering how I speak. I'm trying to make it not to American American centric, but it's also, I think police state probably rings true. Mosts important to person. Yeah. I do see, I, I do see graviton training and education as you know, an abolitionist mechanism, at least an example of it. So yeah. That's just what I stand with that they're gonna, I think I cut you off a bit there.  
Speaker 0    00:59:47    Oh no, it's okay.  
Speaker 7    00:59:49    I just want to say something before someone else says that the flag I said about the share, but that is a different context because it's willing competitives. So in the cooperatives realm, the sheriff is someone that enforces and can ban, like for example, the president of the cooperative, if the president signs something that is affecting the whole cooperative, because it's a corrupt decision, the sheriff can ban that signature and then immediately call the whole cooperative to a general assembly to, to take action into that and can bring dispute mechanisms, but they not have these regenerative trust. And maintainance that graviton was saying that that's why, that's why I said like, I'm really happy to have this training because it's adding to what the competitive, the environment lacks. So I that's a 2.0, that's it. Well,  
Speaker 0    01:00:57    And it's actually an interesting study for what you just said because, because in the context of the place where you're used to that word has a very specific sort of definition and meaning and for aloes to bring it up and I was gonna bring it up too, was just to understand that that word might have a different meaning to other people. And it, it is from this kind of contextualization that we're having now in this discussion that we're having now. And the reason why we have three alternatives to even mediation or alternate dis dispute resolution or illegal remedies, we really go a long, long way and spend a long, long time parsing this stuff just to make it so that everyone has a, a shared understanding and a shared language and a shared, you know, vernacular for, for managing all of this stuff. And the, the more shared that stuff is the lower cost dispute resolution is according to post from principles. And so on, the whole thing just rolls up and it's just benefit after benefit, trust after trust, you know, beauty after beauty that you get from caring enough to, to spend time and, and parse those things and make  
Speaker 2    01:02:09    Those decisions. And also, I want to say that the, the graviton training is designed. Yeah, we start here. This is the first session and we are contextualizing, we are also setting expectations of, yeah, what are we going to be talking about? But during the 10 sessions, we will have some core, some sessions that will be more in depth into organizational identity. We will have other sessions that we will, that will be more in depth about dispute resolution mechanisms. We will also deep dive on the, on the gravity process. We will also have sessions about non-violent communication. So yeah, like the whole course, like we will have a course about leadership, a session about leadership. So yeah, the, the whole course like rounds up rounds up to, to, to, to, to have like a, a, a, a very general overview of what a mediator or a conflict management agent in the Dallas space could look like.  
Speaker 2    01:03:16    And, and how through our, the processes that we are proposing, we are yeah. Giving an alternative to, to organizations so that they have their own justice and, and monitoring systems like also gravity is not that you should take what we are doing and, and like do it as the same. Like I know that there are people here from different organizations and, and you can like, like iterate on this model. And like, we have a registry where we map and where we keep the count of the different disputes that we have addressed. But I, I strongly feel that each organization should have their own registry. And like, there will, there should be at least like five people that can be visible people to, for people to request taxes, to, to request support. And, and also that there, there should be variety within this group. So that it's, it's not like one kind of unilateral thinking implemented, but it's also like a collective intelligence that, that the develops the,  
Speaker 0    01:04:40    And I just wanna say one other sort of foundational thing about this and in my discovery of, of working on, you know, my own sort of compassionate self, that, that the we're gonna, as, as gravitons one of the things that I'm asking you is somebody who's, who's holding this training thing is to understand that there's a principle involved where the degree to which you extends compassion to yourself is the degree to which then you'll be able to extend it to others. And this is a, a cultural dynamic that I'm really interested in educating and propagating it. And so, so this is, this is part of it, right? It's you, you have to realize that there is that sort of axiomatic thing going on there, right? The degree to which you have a facility with conflict resolution, and therefore you're going to fairly amazingly discover that you're going to want to proactively create trust creation within yourself. Do you see what I'm saying? And then the more trust creation you, you principles you create within your own life and your own mind and in your own relationships, then you're gonna then be able to extend those things out into the communities in which you participate. And so that's a basic Axiom that I've, I've noted in, in my own life. And, and through this process of gravity, trying to, you know, talk to you all about so that, you know, the culture can improve itself through the improvement of each of its individual members.  
Speaker 4    01:06:18    Can I just add something on a, on a related this Issa here? Hi. Hi, DGA. Thank you. Thank you for this wonderful first session. And I just wanted to say that I wanted to say thank you. And on a related note, just to say, happy international world day of peace to everyone today. And that's all,  
Speaker 2    01:06:44    Thanks, SGA. I feel  
Speaker 0    01:06:46    That's where I wore my t-shirt.  
Speaker 4    01:06:50    Yeah, we can't see ya.  
Speaker 2    01:06:52    I feel that  
Speaker 2    01:06:53    The main goal of, of gravity would be to, to contribute to building peace in the world. Yeah. Like we, we see so much conflict in, in not only in Dows, but in the whole world that being able to, to collaborate in conflict management in Dows and also spreading the world about conflict management. It's going to be good, not only for Arabic for the organization that you represent, but also for yourself. And I say this as someone who, who like made a major in, in, in conflict management and I, every day I practice these things and it's always easier to talk about them than to practice them. Like when I, when I get mad, my, my, my girlfriend always tell me, oh, that that's the, the conflict management that you're talking about. And, and we are people we are not perfect. And it's a lie to say that we are not going to have conflict, conflict management instead of, of, of avoiding conflict is to be able to face it and to transform it. And, and it's a, a practice that is like everyday practice and everyday learning. And it's something that you can practice within yourself within your relationship with others within your organization. So, yeah, this course is, is also something that can bring you like valuable things to your life.  
Speaker 0    01:08:18    It's a kind of living wisdom really. And what you're talking about is perfectly aligned with that. So do we have any other questions or comments?  
Speaker 4    01:08:30    I had a, I had a, another comment I'm sorry to trail on for so long. Okay. Yeah. The part of the unit that's about justice or like the resolution, it seems to put the perspective of the organization, or like what's best for the organization or the community. Like, almost like that's like the point of view of the, of the graviton, or like, that's the more important point of view or that's what we're negotiating for. Whereas when you have a conflict, it's more like you, you just have a multiplicity of perspectives. It's like an opening up of like, you have individual one individual B and you have the organization, and then there's dis there's dispute because there's a different idea of like, what's right. But I think there's also a different idea of, what's just like, what is justice for the individual versus the organization might actually be different.  
Speaker 4    01:09:38    So, I mean, I hope that the individual's justice is also, and maybe I'll stay. I mean, I will stay on, but I will look, I'll be looking for the, the, how the individuals that might, how the individuals are going to be assisted in during mediation or conflict resolution, because just solving for the organization and like sewing up loose ends and deciding what's in, what's out, that might not be what's best for the individual. So then how can, like this other support system, like validate the journey of that individual, maybe by giving them extra time or resources or other like things to help them like realign or recover. It's also really difficult to be an individual engaged in a conflict. It's like, it's almost like a chosen role. Like you are chosen because if of your difference to represent a conflict, that can be a learning moment for the organization, but it can ha it can be a heavy burden on that individual while they're engaged in the conflict to express, you know, how they've been hurt the pain they're in and what they need to repair. So I think it's also important to not just like mediate and then enact justice, but rather find out what are the best paths for individuals and organizations and how can there be like a, how can there be a champion for the individuals as, and like a support for the individuals as well as like, just figuring out what's best for the organization.  
Speaker 0    01:11:18    Yeah, of course. And, and that's why we have so many things that sort of, what you're talking about was, is I think sort of down to the principle D thing. So, you know, but at the same time we have all this other stuff that would come beforehand. I mean, principal C is about nonviolent communication is almost completely focused on the individual, you know, and providing them with that kind of support. Right. And so, and it really depends if, if that person's issue is related to some tragedy of the commons and that would, we would be looking at the relationship between the principal C and the principal B before we ever got to, you know, the point of, of having to like, and, and I, I like to think that by trying to have such a complex and interwoven and interconnected, that's why I have all these different colored lines around here is because it is all very intertwined in the sense that it is the complex system. I, I would hope that we would not reduce any one conflict down to a zero sum game of the individual versus the organization. You know,  
Speaker 2    01:12:31    So, and also this is something that, that we, we feel that the, the reach of gravity is, is, is not like imposing any, any, any kind of, of, of action exactly. O over a conflict, but more to deliver a set of tools that can be applied. So I, I, I also strongly recommend organizations and doubts, as I was telling before that each human group has justice system. And there, there are a lot of doubts that they don't have any justice system that they or they, they don't have like a policy around how are they going to manage certain situations, or they don't have like a code of conduct. And that's why it's not easy to implement a conflict management mechanism in an organization that doesn't have like code of conduct. And, and, and it's important for gravitons in each organization to be pushing the development of these, of these documents that create rules and boundaries.  
Speaker 2    01:13:49    And that gives sense to the, to the interaction. So, yeah, it, it, sometimes I, we, we, we hear like, Hey, can you ate in this conflict? And when we gather more information about the conflict, we don't have any objective document from the organization saying who, who like, like who of the parts, like acted against the community values. And, and, and then when we don't have these documents that set the boundaries, everything is subjective. And like everyone, everyone has is right. And everyone has the reason because they are seeing it from their point of view. But it's also important to have the, like the organizational point of view to have like a, like a, a, a set of rules of, of what can be the expected outcomes of, of, of a dispute. And those documents are not imposed by gravity. Like each organization should have like their own code of conduct.  
Speaker 2    01:14:59    Each organization should say, like, which actions do they promote? And which actions do they disencourage. And that is not like the same equation for, for all, for every organization. There, there are more organizations like, yeah, each organization can have like their own boundaries. And that's why also we rely on the part of the Ostrom's principles. And we are going also to, to deep dive in the next sessions about Ostrom's principles, because yeah, the actually the first principle is that is to have set clear boundaries and rules. And how can you have like the fourth and, or the sixth principle that is conflict management without having the first principle that is clear rule rules and boundaries and, and yeah, it's, it's something that, that, that you, you, in order to have like, yeah, conflict management, you need to have like some previous steps. And, and that's why it's not only to like, yeah, let's have mediators it's to have competence with within the organization and to build cultural practices that, that allow for conflict resolution.  
Speaker 0    01:16:16    I will say also Jian that I participated in, in one group that they, the way that they've organized themselves is to say that we leave no one behind every single member of our, of our community. We educate them and educate them and set expectations to do everything that they need for as long as they need to understand how all of this works. And then that way, when they take a decision on behalf of the group, all of the individuals are already represented by that group dynamic. Right. And so, depending on how the organization is organized, like that one, for example, the situation you're talking about, about the, the individual versus the group, just simply can't have it in that situation. Cuz they literally, their organizing principle is we leave no one behind, there's no one who was, who is allowed to sort of, you know, so, so it's really interesting. Yeah. That's to see how, how different groups that's beautiful organize themselves. Right. And so you might have other people who want to have a combination of, of, of individuality and group dynamics. You see what I mean? And so the tuning of that and our participation and our advice about what the code of conduct should or would be, would change based on, on that kind of, you know, internal culture. Right? So, so this kind of gives hopefully an example that makes sense.  
Speaker 4    01:17:46    It, it really does make sense. I mean, what both of you said makes sense is in like, you know, that set of rules can consist hopefully continuously be built upon, through, well, making it as robust as possible. But then like with every case study of a person, helping a person be productive in the community, you can add to that set of rules. You can add clarity, you can account for difference. It is a diff it is difficult though. When, when that line is, is established like, oh, this is too much accounting for difference. Like, oh, I don't wanna negotiate for this much difference. And that's like a place where I've seen organizations be like, Hey, we'll just let people leave, you know? Right. And it's like, oh, it's like, oh, that's sad. And then you're like, sure, well, you're just letting people leave because you're not like allowing the organization to like create a case study. Like you're looking at situations as fringe cases or as bad, or like, you know, something else like external. And at the same  
Speaker 0    01:18:51    Time, people have agency to be able to leave if they want to. And we've, we've had situations like that in this, in this organization where people said, you know, this is a line for me and I'm just not willing to participate at at that. Right. And so, and, and part of the reason why I put this to pink thing in here was so that you could sort of understand that it is a generative thing and you can go around and round in this thing and people like, you know, gravity or soca or depending on whatever the context is of the working group, they, they all have a moderated role. They have what we've done already, which is the curated side of the picture. And then that sort of living yes. And you know, or what about, you know, this problem, that problem. And then very cool. Then it's just, you know, it's a, it's a, and the whole point of it. And the reason why I have on the left side is living wisdom. It's, it is a thing which is alive. Right. And it seems to me that that that is actually part of a being a graviton is to sort of assist in the life of organizations by helping, you know, create and, and moderate this type of thing.  
Speaker 0    01:20:04    I mean, in nonviolent communication, it's literally called a language of life, you know, and that's why it is one of the four cornerstones of this process, you know, so hopefully amazing helps any I'm I'm gonna say I've, I'm gonna cut it another seven minutes. So it looks like we got one more question here and I can yeah. Or comment, and then we can stop.  
Speaker 2    01:20:30    I, I only want to say too that I really thank everyone for participating and that I look forward also to have a space, to, to, to get to know each other better. And it would be great. Yeah. To, to, to introduce and to get to know the group, because I see like a very diverse group and coming from different organizations and, and in maybe not in this moment, but in other session, it would be really great to, to share some experiences and to, and to get to know more from, from, from, from the other side that it, it it's, it's like we are always standing from, from our side. But one of the practices that we are trying to, to promote is to be able to stand in the other shoes and to also learn and value from the others experience as, as a peer and for the next week, I will be facilitating and I will be talking about conflict, transformation and theories about conflict interpretation. And yeah, I, I, I really look forward to continue seeing you the next week. And I really thank you for, for coming for this, for this first graviton training session.  
Speaker 0    01:22:07    Thank you guys. I really appreciate your, your attention.  
Speaker 2    01:22:12    Thank you very much. Goodnight.  
Speaker 0    01:22:14    Thanks everybody. Goodbye. Thanks. Bye.  
Speaker 8    01:22:18    Thank you. So. 
