Speaker 0    00:00:00    How can we see conflict transformation as a political philosophy in, in, in our lives and in our organizations. So with that, I will start with the presentation and I will be introducing the, the concept of conflict comp competence. You, you will tell me if the screen gets shared. I, I put it on full screen. Does it shared well,  
Speaker 1    00:00:37    Yeah, it showing up.  
Speaker 0    00:00:39    Okay, thanks. Yeah, we will be talking about conflict competence and what is conflict? Competence is the, the, the ability and the tools that we have to, to react to a, to a conflict in, in, in our organization. So we, we can see dos also as workplaces because there's places the, there are places of a large amount of people. And also there is some goal orientation. So that, that is something that will naturally cause conflict. And it like, it's, it's an where it's natural, that conflict may arise because there there's also always going to be different points of view, different tensions, different ways of seeing things. And the important of the importance of talking about conflict competence is that when, when a conflict arrives, you have clear ways to manage it. And that there is no like UNC uncertainty of, of how things are going to be processed by the system.  
Speaker 0    00:02:08    So, and a conflict competence requires two things, and first is training for, for everyone. And secondly, individual coaching where, where is warranted. So this is something that, that I want to emphasize because sometimes we just want to have like conflict management in, in our organization, but we just want to have like the managers, helping the people when, when they have a conflict, but we are not developing like a training for everyone or to, to, to understand this. So, and that, that has to do a lot with what we said in the first session that gravity is not only about conflict management, like when it happens, but it also focuses a lot on, on, on prevention and like building conflict competence in your organization, lets you for, for people to, to, to break that ice. That, that stops really the, the reception of feedback. Like we, we need to have safe spaces and for people to express feedback. And when, when feedback is not well received that immediately, like,  
Speaker 0    00:03:52    Can you everyone please mute mix so that I can yeah. Have, have the, the, the correct order of my ideas. And, and yeah. And after we have this competence in our organization and after like, we, we normalize talking about conflicts then is when the dispute resolution services can be built. Like it's very difficult when, when, when you try to offer a dispute resolution service, when there's no conflict competence, because like people is going to be completely blocked or, or it's not going to be facilitating the dispute resolution service. And when there's competence, it's normal to talk about conflict. And this is something that we develop by, by, by listening to others and by learning to how to express our opinions. And that's why it's so important also to, to, to be practicing non-violent communication.  
Speaker 0    00:05:11    Because that way is, is, is where we can like communicate the, the differences, but without getting triggered by, by the other, or, but rather being comprehensive or of, of their needs and of the, of the message that, that they are trying to share. So yes, it's normally expecting that two people always sort out the difference is, is not realistic. So that's why we, we also promote this third party support for mediation and facilitation that that should be available for the organization. And these third party support. They, they are the gravitons, they are easy to access agents where you can and people that you can contact and that they are available in the community to serve different types of conflicts, maybe to have an advice process and, and maybe to initialize a feedback loop. This is very, very interesting because we were talking precisely about feedback and, and how, how can we give feedback to the organization?  
Speaker 0    00:06:39    And the idea is that these 17 people that were the first generation of gravitons, at least in the TC are easy access people where you can talk to them about any, any uncomfortable situation that you may be leaving or, or any idea that you want to give to another person or to the system that that can be channeled through them. And why it's important to, to, to have your, your pop-ups because after, after this training, the people that has at least six pops in their account, they will be able to, to, to appear in this kind of list in your organization. And yeah, act as a, as an exceed access point to request conflict management in, in the different organizations that are participating.  
Speaker 0    00:07:37    So now I am going to start talking about what is conflict and conflict is a different interpretation of reality. And like, when we stand from one point, we may think that we are right, but the other person also from the, from their point of view may think that they are right. And what, what is seen in a conflict is E everyone pushing for their point of view. But what is not seen is why do they want their opinion to be heard? And more than a final truth, we, we need to understand why each one is, is attached to their positions. And this takes me to the orange example that I always tell it that is that there were two girls that were fighting for an orange and the mom then split the orange in house. And then they, she saw that one of the girls was squeezing the orange and the other girl, girl just like used the skin of the orange and threw the pulp away.  
Speaker 0    00:08:53    So what, what this scenario like shows us is that if the two girls would have like, have better communication, or, or maybe if the mom would have tried to gather more information from them, they could have arrived to a beneficial solution for the both of them, because they could have used using used the orange a hundred percent, the one that wanted the pool and a hundred percent they wanted that wanted the one that wanted the skin. And that way we can have a, a, a better solution and a, and a beneficial solution for both sides instead of the, of the rational solution that happens without gathering more information. And this is something very related to the prisoners, that dilemma, that we hear a lot in, in different contexts. And is that when we don't have information of the other, we may have, or we may behave to our benefit, but that doesn't mean that that would be the best outcome for everyone, for all the agents.  
Speaker 0    00:10:12    So basically what we are trying to do here in gravity is to facilitate communication and to gather more information, to take a decision, and to try to promote agreements between two people that are beneficial for, for both of them, rather than like benefiting one over the other. And, and so the first questions to ask when we are trying to manage a conflict is what does each part want and what are their needs? What are their interests? And, and maybe try to see if they can agree that, that, that their initial position and may was not the final truth, and that maybe we can have a new alternative from, from like that is born from the integration of the other, where, where the reality can fit both needs. So, yeah, basically through communication, we can, we can promote better decisions and, and through, and by, by gathering information, we, we, we, yeah, we make better choices. So it's important to, to facilitate the, this communication in order to, to, to,  
Speaker 0    00:11:49    To not only seize things from our own point of view, but to be able to be empathic with the other, and also understand that, that the reality sometimes is not only what we see from it and that the other one also, when we, when we understand them, they, they have like their, their reasons of, of why doing things. And, and this way we can treat, treat each other as peers and not impose any solution to anyone, but like trying to, to, to, to, to, to promote yeah, a agreement through, through communication. I bring this image because I think it's very important then to embrace conflict. We are going to have conflict every day in our lives. We are going to have conflict internally, and we are going to have conflict externally. And there is conflict with the institutions. There is conflict with other people. There is conflict with processes.  
Speaker 0    00:13:00    There is conflict with tools. And what, what we need to, to, to do is, is to embrace that, that conflict and not seeing it as something is strange in our lives, but rather as a part of, of, of life. And this is something that we refer to as, as, as the shadow. Sometimes we just want to see the light things, but, and, and we don't want to recognize the shadow, but that recognition of the shadow is embracing. The whole experience is understanding that the light is not only what, what, what is, what, what exists, but that each, each light has a shadow. And that it, we, we should be strong enough for, to, to manage it, not only in our lives, but only, but also in our, in our organizations. We, and that's why I, I also say a lot that this thing of conflict management is not, is not only for organizations, but it's also like a, a living, a living thing, continued learning that we can have every day in life.  
Speaker 0    00:14:22    And, and yes. So, so we need to make people that that can process conflict, but we, and, and then in also to make organizations that can process conflict, that that can process conflict. Yes. And this is why we are talking about a transformative approach to conflict. Cause conflict is an opportunity. A gift conflict is normal in human relationships, and conflict is a model of change. And rather than seeing pieces as end state conflict transformation, use peace as a continuously evolving and developing quality of relationship. So yes, conflict transformation is to respond to the, and flow of life and create constructive change processes that reduce violence, increase justice in direct, in interaction of, and social structures and respond to real life problems in human relationship. But the transformation guiding question is this, how do we end something not desired and build and build something we do desire.  
Speaker 0    00:15:38    And this is a question that we should ask ourselves every time that, that, that we are in a conflict, how, how do we end something that we don't desire and build something we do desire because sometimes we only focus on criticizing or, or like analyzing the things that we don't desire, but it's also important to always propose a solution. And, and, and that's something that we always ask to the people that is participating in gravity. We always ask them, like, what would be the best outcome for you in this situation? What, what do you propose? Because the idea is in, in gravity is not for us to be like judges and, and tell the people what should they do, but rather like give people information so that they can take the better, the best decisions, and we can help them in their decision taking.  
Speaker 0    00:16:40    So it's important always to see what, like what can be the actual solutions that people propose and maybe start working from them to try to like meet halfway in, in, in, in the process of getting into an agreement and conflict can be understood as that, which keep relationships and social structure, honest, alive, and respond to human needs. Com conflict froze, flows from life. And we can understand it that as providing opportunities to grow and increase our understanding of ourselves, of others and our social structures. And actually one way to truly know our humanness is to recognize the gift of conflicting that in our lives, because without it life would be a monotonously flat topography of sameness and our relationships would be who superficial. So I, I am trying to, to, to frame conflict as, as a model of change, as a expression of diversity, and that is something that, that carries a lot of, of, of wisdom the conflict itself, but it has to be properly managed because if you don't manage well conflict, you can end up having violence.  
Speaker 0    00:18:06    You can end up like imposing a solution over the other, or, or you can like inhibit yourself from the conflict and like also not participate in it, but it it's important to try to channel properly conflict and avoid some of the basic problems that we see in, in conflict management that are lack of trust in the systems CAPA capabilities to manage the situation. Like sometimes a common problem to, to have conflict management is that we don't trust that the system is going to be helpful, or, or that we think that maybe the, the, the system is biased. So like, yeah. Why, why should I trust the process? If, if, if I doubt from it and other common problem in, in conflict management is to have like few communication between parts or to have like road rock, solid positions, or points of view, or associating idea ideas to people and saying like, okay, this is an enemy, or making an enemy image of the other, or like ma ridiculing the problem, making value propositions, hurting feelings of the other person.  
Speaker 0    00:19:33    And maybe also other other problem in conflict management is that we don't have leg legitimacy of the agreement. Like what, what ensures the decisions and accountability of the decisions and conflict resolution follow up all these problems that are things that normally happen when we are trying to solve a conflict are some of the things that we are trying to tackle through gravity, because we are trying to build trust in the system so that people know that we can manage the situation. And that also that we are trying to facilitate communication between parties and try to be self determin determined so that we are not biased over one part of the, or the another. And we try to meet halfway and breaks, rock solid points of view by asking the people why, why, what are you willing to compromise or negotiate in this situation? Because yeah, if, if we want to reach an agreement, we also have to have something that we can negotiate with.  
Speaker 0    00:20:50    It's not like, yeah, I am in my position and I will not give any, any step towards the other, but we try to like make a negotiation margin where, where people can like, say, okay, I give you this and you give me that. Or like, if, if there is a solution that you don't like, and maybe I am, there is a solution that I am proposing, what would be like a third solution that can be born from this apparent division. And also we, we don't associate ideas to people or, or people with the, with problems. We don't say that the, the conflict of that is that people, no, we, we, we differentiate the people from the problem. The, the people is never the problem. There is a problem in which the individual is participating and, and that, that's something we, we, we unconsciously do a lot like saying, no, he's, he's the, the, the, the troublemaker, or we associate yeah.  
Speaker 0    00:22:06    A situation with, with, with that people. But it's more that that person is involved in that situation than the people being the con, that the person being the conflict. We also try to stay away from value propositions. We respect everyone's problems and we recognize them and everyone's problems are equally important. And it doesn't matter if it's like lack of recognition or something small or, or something bigger, like acting against the values of the community. All problems are, are, are, are important. And then that, then we jump into, into the feeling parts like we, we don't, we, we respect the feelings of, of, of, of people. And, and this is something that we will be digging much in the NBC book book club that will be starting this week in Thursday, we will be deep diving in, in, in NBC. And why feelings are so important to be heard and to be like processed in order to, to, to identify needs and needs that sometimes are not reflected in, in the conflict.  
Speaker 0    00:23:31    And, and then try to, to, to meet the needs of, of each part. And also we, we bring legitimacy of the agreements because the graviton are witnessed witnesses of the, of the, the agreements that are done, the mediation in gravity. And also we have accountability of decisions and follow up because we had a registry that was done in, in Google spreadsheet. But now we are working to migrate some of that registry into a sand hub so that everyone can be like, can, can have the accountability of the decisions and, and the actions that were done through gravity. And this is also other thing that I wanted to say that gravity's still a project that is like very new and we still have a lot of things to improve. So, so yeah, we, we are also having some changes that, that you will be informed through these graviton trainings. Like, like the one I just said that we are going to have our conflict registry on sand hub, and we will like be able to, to give certain information, but without giving too much detail, like not, we are not going to share the name of the people that participated in the conflict so that yeah, we can have a, like a database of, of, of that can be analyzed of what are, what, what were the conflicts and what were the actions that were taken.  
Speaker 0    00:25:25    And also other common problem that we have in, in conflict management is that sometimes we, we don't really take into account the, the, the window of tolerance that we all have. And this is a psychological concept that is that we, we have like a boundaries where, where we, we can become like hyper aroused or hyper aroused. And when we are trying to solve a conflict, it's very important to stay in the margin of the window of tolerance of the optimal arousal zone. So that, that you, you, you can, I am sure that all of you have, have experienced this. Like you are trying to solve a conflict with someone, and then you are in the optimal arousal, you are getting to an agreement, but then you say something that, that, that the other person didn't like, and then he, or she like gets upset. And then we take them out of their optimal arousal zone.  
Speaker 0    00:26:37    And they now, they don't want to reach an agreement. And, and because of their anger or because of their, yeah. Of, of their emotions now, now they, they will be even able to, to throw down all the work that we have been trying to get to an agreement because of, of, of their anger. And, and, and, and that has to do a lot of, of, of why processing feelings is so important in manage in managing conflict. Because when we, when we are trying to manage a conflict, we are trying to, to, to reach a, a, a, yeah. An agreement, a rational agreement with the other person. And when we take them out of their optimal arousal zone, they, they might take irrational decisions. Like, yeah, maybe, yeah. I am going to give an example. Like, I, I am talking with my girlfriend over, I don't know, over going to a friend's house.  
Speaker 0    00:27:42    And, and like, we, we are talking and we are going to, to reach an agreement. But if I, if I then say something that triggers her anger, maybe she's going to say like, no, I don't want to go. And maybe that, that, that is because of, of being in her hyper arousal also, and not because actually she didn't want to go to, to, to visit our friend. So, so yeah, it, it's very important to always to manage conflict, to be able to manage feelings as well and manage emotions and try to, to, to set a safe space. Yeah. Because if, if, if everyone starts like getting aroused and maybe saying to the other things that they don't like, we are never going to have a, an agreement on, on that thing, because we are going to go through the branches and then we're going to start playing like a game of judgment. And, and we, we, we lose the focus on the agreement. And then we start, yeah.  
Speaker 0    00:28:59    Like going through through adversarial positions, instead of like, looking at the agreement we start getting into positions of, of, of you, you tell, told me that, and then I told you that this, and then it's like something that, that doesn't like let, to reach an agreement and rather promotes, promotes yeah. To take I irrational decisions based on emotions. And why do I see conflict management as a political philosophy? Because I think that conflict itself is not bad. It's an expression of diversity of interest. I ideas and points of view. It arises in all human relationships and like crisis can be excellent opportunities to grow, emerge, stronger, learn, and improve. I am sure that all of us have had conflict that when we saw them in the, in the, in the initial moment, in their initial stage, we thought that nothing good could come, come out of them.  
Speaker 0    00:30:10    But also, like after some time we, we, we, we can see some good things that have come after, after certain conflicts that we have lived in our lives because they have given us, they have learned, like teach us things and they have made us stronger, and they have helped us to change some, some, some things. And like when assuming that conflicts are negative people and institutions tend to feel to, to fear them and adapt one of these two attitudes, like reserve to force power violence, or they ignore them hoping that they will pass without others in them. And both of these alternatives are, are like the ones I, I showed in the previous graphic, like not being able to stay in the optimal arousal zone to reach through, to reach an agreement through the dialogue. And that when a conflict arises, both parties may believe that they have the only logical stance since each sees the situation exclusively from their particular point of view.  
Speaker 0    00:31:27    But the need and importance of dialogue is that it is a mechanism that allows the search for collectively constructed solutions through listening and incorporating the other perspective. And that means that the quality of an institution is not term not, not determined by whether or not it has conflicts, but how it manages to address them. And this is something that, that we, we, we are seeing in the Dow space and like a good Dow is not the one that, that doesn't have any conflict that would be mysterious. Like conflict is a normal side in Dows. And actually the quality of a, of a Dow is if, how can the, the Dow manage their, the conflicts that happen in inside them?  
Speaker 0    00:32:23    Yeah. I, I think of a, of a quote from a book that is called discourse on colonialism, the MSSR, and it mentions that a, a civilization is decadent when it cannot solve the, the problems it creates. So yes, if a do creates problems or creates conflicts in the decision taking in their, in their coordination, in their diversity, the, the, that should also be able to take care of that, of, of, of, of that, of, of that, that dynamics that are being created inside of them. And why, why I say that that conflict management is a, is a political philosophy. And because, because in, in, in, in philosophy, and, and in politics, we, we see that evolution is not like a straight line and rather is like an, an spiraled process where, where we, we initially have a thesis and then that thesis like brings an antithesis, and then we have a synthesis, but that synthesis then also has an antithesis.  
Speaker 0    00:33:58    And we're also like always evolving through dialogue. And through the existence of otherness is like, if, if we only had a thesis and never, we had an antithesis, we, we would like be still and, and, and, and don't have actually the change. So conflict is that model of change that existence of the other, that recognition of a different point of view is what brings a thesis to become a, a synthesis. So, so that's why it's also important not to, to, to, to avoid ha like having conflict, because that way we also would avoid change and evolution. If, if we are not open to, to listen to feedback, there, there should be like a lot of things that, that w won't be taken into account in the system. And also the system would, would become rigid and, and not adaptable to the needs that, that are required in the context.  
Speaker 0    00:35:06    And here we can see in, in marks dial dialectical materialism, that he also ex talks, that, that the evolution in history has been through the, the conflict that has happened between between dualities and between, between yeah. Be between, between, between the dualities that we have had in our, in our societies. And, and if, if, if we eliminate that duality, we, we never, yeah. Take important points of view that could help us improve our, our processes. And this is also very related to why conflict management can be seen as a political philosophy, because this is a, a, a, the political system designed by David. And it says that through demands and support the political system acts as, as, as a black box that takes decision or policies, and that are, and that are made output to the environment that then are received that as feedbacks as, as, as, as, as input for new demands and for new supports for that political system to act.  
Speaker 0    00:36:45    So in that way, what we are trying to promote with gravity is a conflict transformational platform. And that means a system that can generate and re generate change processes responsive to both immediate episodes and the rational context. And we, so we are seeing conflict as the existence of, of anthesis and evolution is not a straight line. So what we are trying to to do is to trying to, to have a, a platform that doesn't get stuck when conflict arise, but rather than that, it feels for conflict from conflict to, to, to pro, to propose new, new solutions that are integrated in the system. And, and yeah, this is what we're trying to do with gravity, so that those are not so much affected by ly negatively by conflict, but rather that they can be affected positively from conflict to transform and to respond to their, to the needs that that conflict was was, was trying to, to, to show to the system. And this take us to, to the framework for conflict analysis that we are trying to promote in gravity.  
Speaker 0    00:38:32    And it's based on first, we try, we make an identification of cases, and we have a referral of the dispute by the parties and this, this first step we can associate it with, with the people like, who are the actors? What is their relationship of power? What, what are their interests? And this is what we call the observation process when, when a, a conflict arise, the first thing that we try to do is to map who are the actors and what are the interests. And, and we try to make this yeah, like a screening of the, of the, of, of the initial situation. And they, that takes us to the, to the second step. That is the screening of the dispute and invitation to attend mediation. And is when we focus on understanding the problem, when we try to know what is the context of the problem, what are the arguments of, of the, that are faced from the different sides?  
Speaker 0    00:39:43    What are the aspirations and interests? Yeah. What, what is the, the reach of the conflict? And in order to continue on the, on the process, there, there should be like an invitation to attend a mediation or to attend the conflict management process. And that means that there should be willingness from the actors to, to part, to participate in the process, because we cannot impose this process to people who, who don't want to, to, to, to participate in it. This is a hundred percent based in consent on, on the ideas of the two people thinking that, that through communication, they, they can reach a better decision than the one that they can take without communication. And through this screening of the problem, we also try to understand the feelings that, that are involved in the problem, and, and that are, are triggering the part, the, the, the different parts with that.  
Speaker 0    00:40:58    We jump to the process and we conduct an ADR process looking for POS for possible solutions. And this is that we have a joint session with the parties, and we try to look for possible solutions, but before having a joint session, we have ES or private sessions, which each of the parties to try to, to, to, to, to design an alternative, because yeah, and, and this is something that, that I learned from experience that if you have a joint session without, without having the proper amount of, of, of private sessions before the, the mediation process can, can go out of control because you need to have the parties more or less to, to, to agree on certain points so that after it, during the mediation, you can like certify those agreements. But if you come too raw to, to a mediation without having like communicated well with, with the parties, during that mediation, things could go wrong.  
Speaker 0    00:42:24    And, and some of the parties can like go out of their optimal arousal zone and throw the, the, the process down. So, so it's important to have a good, a good preparation of the process before engaging in a mediation. And in gravity, like we are going to have continued education alternatives, and we are going to have later a course that deeps dives on mediation, because this graviton training is like an introduction to a, a large amount of topics that need like everyday practice. And after this graviton training, you are not going to be like a skillful mediator. After this graviton training, you, you are going to have like the basic principles and the basic ideas of what a mediation is and how can you participate, but first, but, but everything needs practice and everything needs continue the education. So also other good practice that we have been doing is that when, when a conflict occurs and a mediation happens, we always have like one more skilled graviton.  
Speaker 0    00:43:50    And one graviton that is, is not so much trained so that they can understand better the process. And yeah, that way we can, we can improve the, the, the, the learning curve for new gravitons to know how the process works and to get skill on the, on the, on the mediation process. And, and yeah, like this, this, this, this is a training that, that gives a lot of, of, of, of, of information. But the idea is that after this training, you, you continue engaging with gravity and that you continue practicing what you, what we learn and you, you continue helping us develop even better our processes, because yeah, the Gravitant would be the, the contributors to, to, to this organization. And after we have this process of mediation, we have a post mediation administration at and party responsibilities that is that we, we try to look for possible solutions. Then we try to, to implement an agreement and, and be witness of that agreement so that we can have follow up mechanism of the agreement. And we also sometimes design some like KPIs for the implementation of the agreement.  
Speaker 0    00:45:35    And after, after that, like a month or, or two, two weeks ago, we also sync with the, with the parties that, that participated in the mediation process to know how the, how things are, are evolving. So gravity aims to be, to, to, to facilitate a conflict management cycle for dos. And this is an infographic that I have to think a AC laser for, for helping me do it because the basic idea of gravity is that we can have always an external management layer that is involving a third party with, with authority to, to solve that dispute in one favor or the other, to, to, to, yeah. To solve the dispute in favor or one side or the another. But with gravity, we are trying to, to, to implement an internal management layer within the organization where the decisions are not taken by this third party with authority by rather, and rather by being self compos. And the outcomes of, of a dispute emerge from dialogue between the parties come from compromising for win-win solutions. And this is the, the process that we saw before we first have like a referral and education of conflict, then that goes through internal management.  
Speaker 0    00:47:26    And, and that takes us if, if the, if the, if the conflict can, can be solved internally, like through negotiation between the parts or with a mediation, from, from a graviton, then we have like in an internal follow up of the decisions. And then we have also like a periodical of transformational actions to work on prevention. And then even though that we always work around prevention, we are also always going to have referral of conflict. So this is like a cycle, but, and, and we have transformational actions that, that can help solve a conflict. But if the transformational actions are not enough to solve the conflict, then we can always jump to the, to the external management layer and, and, and having a arbitration process that would have like an external follow up. But yeah, the idea is that not everything have, has to be sold by a third with authority, but that rather we can have third sites that only facilitate the communication between the involved parts. And with that, I want to invite you to one of our continued education activities is that we are going to have a non-violent communication that will be starting this Thursday, 3rd of September, after the TC community call, that is eight CT in the Dow book club server. And you can join the, the discord of the Dow book club here, and the PDF of the book that we will be reading starting on. Chapter one is this one is nonviolent communication language of life by Marshall Rosenberg.  
Speaker 4    00:49:40    Could you drop that link in the cavity text channel, just cuz we can't get to the slide.  
Speaker 0    00:49:47    Yeah. Perfect.  
Speaker 4    00:49:49    Thank you.  
Speaker 0    00:49:50    Perfect. I thought I shared it. Yes, yes it is. I shared it today at 1:00 PM.  
Speaker 4    00:49:57    Oh groovy. Thank you.  
Speaker 0    00:49:59    Yeah. Also, do you have any questions? There's other thing that I missed saying, but yeah, I, I want to open the mic a little bit.  
Speaker 0    00:50:22    Okay. Then I am going to go in this, in this reading that was in the pre-reading prayer learning list, but I, I didn't add it to the slides. So I will be talking about this and I will jump to the conclusions because it's a little bit long. Yeah. But the, the idea of this reading is that sometimes we promote false selves in, in, in organizations and that also like promotes an organizational identity. And what is a false self in an organization? It's a self where you are only seeing like an object or like as a, as a part of, of, of, of like a wheel in the, in the, in the, in the structure. But we are not, but you are not take taken as a, as a, as a full in individual who has needs besides the organization. And what I am trying to to say is that we should promote authentic selves in a, in, in organizations.  
Speaker 0    00:51:46    And what, what, what is authenticity authenticity is to be able to say, Hey, today, I'm not feeling well. And sometimes we promote these false selves. Like you have to be good all the time. You have to have be available all the time and you have to, to, to deliver all your things perfectly. And that like really makes a false idea of, of, of, of who we are. And, and we should promote true selves and, and spaces for, for, for, to have like this, this potential space that can come out of conflict to, to be something creative and, and yeah. To, to not civilize the, this, this human side that, that we all have.  
Speaker 0    00:52:50    Yeah. Like sometimes we, we, we only talk about work in, in Dallas and that's why I am always like, talk about that. It's important to have lounges or, or, or spaces for people to talk about non-related to work things because we are not only like the avatars in our screen and we are human beings and we all have different problems in our life. And it's important to be, to, to, to have a space, to feel support from, from our community in, in, and to help each other in the different problems that we may, may be leaving. Maybe you are acting really good in your job, but you are having an interpersonal conflict. And, and that, that, that isn't making you to be happy by collaborating and, and the organization shouldn't only care for, for the collaboration to reach goals, but also for the wellbeing and the development of the people who is inside.  
Speaker 0    00:54:09    So yeah, I, I, I think it's important to, to promote safe spaces, to talk about conflict and to request support from the community. And this also fosters advice process in, in the, in the last call, we were talking about advice process and how can we foster it? And, and I think that through lounges and through safest spaces, we can make that our organizations understand more the authenticity of the people and, and actually deal with people and not only treat treating people as, as, as, as yeah, as numbers or, or as only caring for their contributions, but also caring for the wellbeing. Also, I think this is something that would help a lot, the Dow space because Dows are trying to be, to, to be like better institutions that, that the ones we have now. And I think that that to have these better institutions is not only to make them like faster or capable of doing more things, but also that the people who participate in them feel well and that they feel that they, that their, their needs are taken into accounting, the system.  
Speaker 0    00:55:34    And also that they have a voice because we cannot promote agency in the Dallas space. If we don't give voice to the people and, and giving voice to the people is, is making all these safe spaces to be able to, to talk about conflict, to talk about diversity of points of view, and, and to, to, to recognize that shadow in, in order to be able work on, on it. Because if we never recognize the shadow, we will never be able to work on it. And, and these, these spaces bring up the shadow in organizations are really important.  
Speaker 4    00:56:19    Fun. You're on fire.  
Speaker 0    00:56:21    Sorry.  
Speaker 4    00:56:23    No, it's I have a, I have a question I'm holding. I missed a visual. Like I just wasn't looking at it as much as I wanted to. There was a slide after the swirly ones in the triangles, it was like a curly cue. And then a bunch of triangles. There was a slide after that. I think it was a, was it dialectic circle or something like that?  
Speaker 0    00:56:56    I am going to share again, which one  
Speaker 4    00:56:59    It came after the, the dialectic. I, I don't know if I'm saying that right cycle.  
Speaker 0    00:57:09    Yeah. Well, I, I am sharing.  
Speaker 4    00:57:17    Yeah. I didn't catch the, that one. Yeah. There was a lot happening on that.  
Speaker 0    00:57:24    Yeah. This, this is from the first lecture that, that I sent in the per learning is. Yeah.  
Speaker 4    00:57:36    Thank you. Yeah. I can't recall where I see things. We get so many things. Thank you.  
Speaker 0    00:57:45    A conflict transformational platform should be short term responsive and long term strategic. The re the defining characteristic of such platform is the capacit to generate and regenerate change processes, responsive to both immediate, immediate episodes and the relational context. Yeah.  
Speaker 5    00:58:10    Would it be okay to double check that I posted on the channel? It's the correct one.  
Speaker 0    00:58:17    I am not hearing well, sorry.  
Speaker 5    00:58:19    Oh, would you mind check linking the book club server on the gravity channel? I linked one on there and I ask if that's the correct one, but I'm not sure.  
Speaker 6    00:58:28    Yeah.  
Speaker 0    00:58:30    Yeah. It is that one, the double club server.  
Speaker 6    00:58:37    It all the  
Speaker 5    00:58:37    Way also to view this presentation, we need to request that. Yeah.  
Speaker 6    00:58:42    Sorry, getting sweat and getting all hot. Yeah.  
Speaker 0    00:58:44    Well, I'm sorry. Yes, but I will, I will get it open right now. And the other thing that I wanted to say is that I really wanted to hear everyone's boys here and the ones that, that are able to stay. It would be good if we can have some time to, to, to get to know each other and get to hear different voices. I, I felt that I talked like an hour completely. And, and yeah, for me, it's really important to, to know which brought, like what brought you to this, to this training? What is your relationship with conflict? And also like maybe you are representing a organization and maybe I can start doing that. I. 
