Speaker 0    00:00:00    Number eight of this graviton training. And that's amazing because, because we have come a lot, a long journey to come here and I feel, I, I am really proud about how the training is going because we have had several facilitators and we have had a lot of interesting topics that all of them are complementary skills to, to manage conflict and to also prevent it both in a group and also from an individual point of view. So in this session, we will be having two main topics and one is about alternative dispute solution. We are going to get into the ground about what are the gravity processes and yeah, that then we are going to deep dive on, on some of the documents we've been working on and the structure we have been building to have the project to this point, and also the very important documents that all S need to see and understand and manage. So yeah, this session, I am going to start also practicing at an open bono open bono. This is how I practice. I don't know if you've seen this video. I think, yeah. We shared it yesterday in the Twitter.  
Speaker 0    00:01:52    Yeah, but I, I really recommend it. If, if you haven't seen it, I recommend you to see it. Or we can also spend some, some minutes watching this video, but it's a practice that is meant to erase memories. Sometimes we are like aliked, but through memories we take away, like we create a cloud and we don't let that light pass through us because there is the cloud. And when you erase that, this memory of this cl memory of cloud cloud memory, we are able to let light go through us again. So I am going to, yeah, I am going to play this video for some minutes. And then we are going to have a, a practice of, of this here in the call.  
Speaker 1    00:03:03    I is to answer the question who am, because what happens is when you don't know who you are, you become a problem. So it's important to answer the question who am I, I'm going to take you back to the beginning of zero. This is where we're always gonna come back is to zero. When you hear greats, such as Buddha says, come back to boy zero, you hear the same message from people, greats, such as Jason, come back to purity of soul. Even Shakespeare Shakespeare talks about coming back to blank. So why is it that you want to come back to zero? Because that zero is where all your answers are. So zero, when you at zero, Buddha says you become enlightened. So you become the, I am. When you become the, I am, you become inspiration. You get inspired. When you are inspired, you get the right sources of wealth. When you are in REPI, when you in inspire, you get the right relationship, you get the right place to live and it comes, it comes all without your having to effort, no effort, ethical bono is about taking you back to zero. How do we do that? We erase the data  
Speaker 1    00:04:36    Back to zero again. Then you become inspired again. It, most of the time we are stuck in what Budha called the cloud of memory. What goes off? I will demonstrate talking about you in the beginning, there was nothing, zero and out. The zero came to light. Everything you need get still memory comes up, blocks. The light, all it is cause of this memory is the memory. When you release the memory, you back to zero, all of your memories in not in your, not in your, not in the government and you, so the idea, the whole is release memory, everything you need. When I look at her, I see her and I have all kinds of judgment about her. Oh, but if I left go, she be playing game home. That's here to do is that you are already perfect. You're not working on you. You're working on the memory in you.  
Speaker 0    00:06:10    So yeah, the people who knows me from a little time or who have at least we have had the pressure to see physically, they know that I like to give wristbands with these words, the words I love you. Thank you. I'm sorry. And forgive me to remind people of this practice of how many times we carry a luggage that really it's not needed for us to be free. And how many times with that memory, with that ego, with that idea of ourselves, really, we block like the light that, that, that shines from us. So yeah, I, we are going to have this practice. He, and I will ask you to yeah. Take a comfortable position and to take a little bit of deep breath, and I will be saying these words so you can like relate to them. And, and it's also a very personal experience because I will be saying like, I am sorry. And I will be saying, I'm sorry for, for some things that I feel that I need to say, I'm sorry. But if you feel that you have something to say, I'm sorry for please do it. And that way we can yeah. Erase that cloud of memory and let the sh the light that is inside of us shine. So, yeah,  
Speaker 0    00:07:55    And also on open, open is very important to be called responsible for our actions and our feelings. So, and I, I, I like how it complements with NBC and with this continuous learning that we, that we are having. So I will start saying that I am sorry, and I am sorry for the harm I've made to others. And I am sorry for the judgment I have made to others. And I am sorry for the pain that others feel, and that there's not much that I can do. So I have also to be con conscious of that, my actions and all of our actions always impact others. So, and we are not perfect. And sometimes even without wanting to, we sometimes harm others. So, yeah, I'm sorry. And I say this so that I have nothing else to be sorry for.  
Speaker 0    00:09:18    And I forgive myself for the harm. I have caused to myself and for blaming other others, for my feelings, I take full responsibility of my feelings and I forgive myself for being hard with me, or for being hard with others. I, I want to open my heart and feel love and feel, and in immense love. And I want to say, I love you. I love you. The peop the, the person that is hearing me in this screen, I respect you. And I honor you. And I love you for taking your time for, to, to, to hear what I have come here to, to, to say, to, for joining all these graviton trainings. I love you because sometimes we are scars with our love, with our capacity to love, but really love is a unlimited resource that we have within ourselves. So we are sometimes scars with love, and we only love our family, and we only love our, our partner, but we can open our hearts to love each and every one of us and love ourselves as, as brothers, as one big family.  
Speaker 0    00:10:49    So, yeah, I love you all. And yeah, my, my feelings for all of you are of, of respect and, and, and thank you. Thank you for, for making me feel valued. And thank you for, for listening to me and also for making the light inside of me, shine brighter, because I wasn't able to, to, to communicate all that I have inside of me until this moment. And I thank you because all of you have like, developed my, my best self for this moment. So yeah, that's the practice I wanted to share with you. And with this, we want to fill ourselves with love, to let go of things from the past and to thank the world and the life that we have, because even though that we are passing through tough times, all of the people that is here has have a lot of things to, to, to give thanks for, and also for the position that we have, where we can make impact on building and changing the things, how we, how we feel it, they can be better.  
Speaker 0    00:12:28    So thank you all. And now after this intro, we will get into the center of this session. That is how to manage disputes. Like until this moment in the graviton training, we have talked a lot about how to prevent disputes, how to create, trust, how to develop empathy with the other, how to communicate, but eventually, and it's normal that disputes arise. And it can be either between two people or either you being a third side in, in, in a conflict. There are certain tips and skills that, that you can reproduce to, to, to react the best when, when a conflict arises. So that's why we promote in gravity alternative dispute resolution that is any method of, or, or mechanism of resolving disputes, other than litigation. And there are many alternative dispute or solution techniques, but they all basically stand and from a non adversarial search for beneficial outcome, looking for compromise and dialogue between parties.  
Speaker 0    00:14:00    So I think you are already familiar with this image and I will go fast with it, but this is basically the conflict management cycle for thes that gravity proposes. And instead, there can always be an external management layer where you can have arbitration and where you can invest a third with authority to take a decision. But when, when, if we use that, that method of solving disputes, there will be always a clear winner and a clear loser. And the outcome of the dispute will not come from the parties, but for, from a third side, and we want to promote an self composition within the community, and like to create an internal management layer where the outcomes of a dispute emerged from dialogue between parties, compromising for win wheels, win-win solutions. And this way we can avoid falling into the prisoners' dilemma and rather like creating new PA new paths and looking for beneficial outcomes with the communication and with the dialogue of the, of the parties.  
Speaker 0    00:15:12    And here we ex explain a little bit of two self CPO ADR mechanisms that we can have here in gravity. And, and that we can, and that, that we mostly promote. And it's one, the first one is the mediation is mechanism where the third party does not have decision making capacity. He, or she's only a facilitator, and this is what we mostly do in gravity, in gravity. We do mediation between people other than like focusing in this conflict management scenario. So, yeah, and we also have conciliation and is when the two parts invest the, the, the third party with the ability to propose decisions. And, and yeah, they mostly differ in the, in the capacity that the mediator has in, in, in, in the dispute. But yeah, we mostly use a mediation where the, the, the conflict manager is just a facilitator.  
Speaker 0    00:16:28    Okay. And arbitration, you know, you know, it is when you invest someone with, with authority to take a decision and why is hetero composite? Because yeah, in contrast to conation on mediation, the composition is, is not built from the agreement of the parts involved, but from the decision of the, of a delegated third part. So, and I hope you, you also check out this video that is getting to, yes. In challenging times, William URI is an expert on mediation and on negotiation. And he leads the hard bird program on negotiation. And this is a really cool video that he recorded last year, mostly around this, the same dates. And it's really good. So he, he proposes a way of managing disputes drawn as, as, as an engineering point of view. And I like this narrative of engineering, because here we are in the talking engineering common.  
Speaker 0    00:17:48    So we are engineering tokens. We can also engineer negotiation. And basically he ha he says that there are three main important basis of, of, of building a bridge between two people and building a bridge between two people. We mean managing a conflict between them. And one is the balcony. The other one is the bridge. And the other one is the third side. So yeah, the, the balcony is to, to not let yourself be out of your optimal arousal zone. Why, because sometimes we are building a bridge, but then we are almost reaching an agreement, but then like emotions arise and someone maybe touch a sensitive fiber of the other. And, and because of emotions, our rational decision can be taken down. So like, maybe you were building a bridge with someone, but then she calls you or he calls you by the name you don't like to be told.  
Speaker 0    00:19:10    And you say, Hey, I wa I, I wanted to reach an agreement with you, but now that you said, what I didn't like to hear, I don't want to have anything with you. And that, and this happens a lot. This happens a lot. And when we are facilitating a, a mediation, it's important to create this safe environment where, where, where things don't go chaotic because they can go chaotic really easily. And, and it has happened to me and it's not nice. And it's mostly also lack of the mediator. When, when, when, when you CA you, you don't prepare the safe space as good as, as, as, as you could have done it. So that, so that when, when building the bridge like emotions, don't turn it down. And, and, and yeah, staying in the balcony is staying with the ice in, in, in what you want and not letting you, and like sting from a high point.  
Speaker 0    00:20:24    So like, you don't get into the weeds of what happened, but that, but like, you are rather seeing things from a, from a high perspective on, on, on your goal and, and like, thinking on what, what obstacles can you pass through to get your goal? The bridge is the, the, the, the building a mutual agreement between the parties and this, and the third side is also a person who, who is bested with confidence, with confidence, from both parties to sustain the structure. So, yeah, I, I like this, this, this analogy, and I think it's, it's a good way of, so of, of, of facing dispute when it arises and also on what are the important things that you have to keep in mind when, when, when in these situations. So it's not just like building a, a bridge between the, the two people, but also creating a safe space and always trying to keep like, emotions controlled.  
Speaker 0    00:21:35    So like, so that things don't go chaotic because when, what we are doing in, in, in, in conflict management is that we are trying to not take emotional reactions, but, but rather to build, to build rational agreement. And, and the importance of, of, of, of, of creating this balcony is to not let like emotions turn down your agreement. So I think we are clear on that and I will pass to the next slide. So, and this is explained on the bridge. This is the bridge. And it's like, there are two people and they both have one most desired outcome and one least acceptable agreement. So our, our idea when making a negotiation between between two people is to try to create a zone of possible agreement. And within, within that zone of possible agreement to create a bad, a best alternative to a negotiated agreement. So, yeah, like they both stand from opposite positions. They both have a most desired outcome that can be polarized from the other, but you can, you, you can try to create a zone of possible agreement by not by taking one or the other into their list, acceptable agreement, but trying to meet them in the middle, meet them halfway.  
Speaker 0    00:23:30    And yeah, this is on negotiation and who is the third side? The third side is, can be outsiders and can be insiders. But the importance of, of, of the third side is for it to be responsible and, and committed to the cost. Because we, as a third side can act either as a facilitator to the, to the, to the so being and the management of the dispute, or rather as a catalyst of an explosion, because we, the third side, we, we will have access to private information and to important information from one side or the other. And if a third side is, is bad intentioned can, can help ignite the fire. So, one thing when you're looking for a third site, if you is that you want someone that is someone who you can feel comfortable and confident with that will do things right for you and for the other person.  
Speaker 0    00:24:38    And that's why in gravity, we have a lot of requirements to only, not only to become a graviton as this training is, but also to stay as a graviton and to mediate in a dispute, because we don't want to be like the people that they like, people come to us for, with a dispute, and then we just give them something bigger. That's not the idea. So what is being a good third part is to be able to procure a safe space for each part, to, to, to, to trust in the process and to collect valuable information. Being a good third part is to take into account the feelings of each part, ignoring the feelings can prevent a dispute from being resolved, to feel comfortable with strong emotions and to become sensitized to the feelings and needs of others, as well as, as ourselves, we need to be able to map and clarify the situation.  
Speaker 0    00:25:49    Sometimes the conflicts need are not what they are shown. Sometimes we see like the symptom of a conflict, but we need to map and really understand the conflict to, to get to the root of it and help the, a good third part needs to help the parties understand their own interest and risk and explore all possibilities to confirm aesthetic factory agreement and help to make informed decisions, pondering, expected costs, ex anti and exposed and expected benefits to an negotiated agreement. So what, like, we, we are, we are not imposing decisions or, or to anyone, but we are rather telling them that than that we can help them to make informed decisions and, and yeah. That they will have better outcomes from the dispute with a negotiated agreement than if they solve it by their own hands, or if they solve it with a third one that they just give authority to take a decision.  
Speaker 0    00:27:09    But we also foster self C. So sometimes someone requests like support from gravity. And what we tell them is, Hey, communicate directly with the other part, because sometimes we are even shy to say things, or we don't know how to say them, but, or we think that the other person will receive what we have to say in a bad manner. But yeah, we, we also foster the cap that everyone has the capacity to and the, and the agency to, to express what they feel and to express it in a, in a, in a good way.  
Speaker 0    00:28:02    So now we are going to get into a deep dive of what we have building on gravity until this point. And I will be opening a lot of links, but most of them are in, in the study plan here, and others are of easy access. So yeah, I will be sharing them too. So yeah, first we have a code of conduct inside of gravity, and it's the actions that, that are possible within gravity and it's that everyone can fill the type form or approach any of the gravitons to request support GRA gravitons can approach the parties involved to collect information on, on the issues. Gravitons can take actions to regulate unwanted behavior. According to the graduate sanctions, we are going to go on the, in some minutes, all community members can propose new methodologies to approach graduate sanctions and mutual monitoring as, as well as upgrade the current ones, cuz we are always evolving.  
Speaker 0    00:29:23    And as we saw in lowest session, there are a lot of conflict management methodologies. So it's not that we are going to marry with mediation and conciliation. If, if someone says that we can integrate, I don't know, integrating or other as, as we are also integrating non-violent communication, our ideas to have like a portfolio of practices that that can fit the different circumstances of conflicts, because not like all conflicts are, are, are, are different and they can be approached or solved better with, with one methodology than the other. So this is also a very creative science where you can say, Hey, I think that maybe this conflict don't actually need a mediation. Maybe we can have this other practice or maybe we can make an yeah. But the idea is that we can have this structure and, and yeah, that we can continue iterating our conflict management mechanism.  
Speaker 0    00:30:39    Graviton can submit conflict or issues to the gravity registry. I am going to talk to you about the gravity registry in, in some minutes, that is a database of the CA CA cases managed by gravity conflict. Resolutions calls and chats are close to the, to gravity tone and parties involves to respect privacy and vulnerability. The gravity working group can host training and, and capacitate individuals to become gravitons. The graviton training is free and open for all the gravity can remove proposals from all the voting categories they receive flaggings are and, or are seen as harmful to the communities based on rules, boundaries, terms and conditions.  
Speaker 0    00:31:25    Yeah. And we also have rules and boundaries, like all members should act in acknowledgement in the guide with the guideline for scale of conflicts and graduated sanctions. I will be opening this because we will be seeing this some minutes, graviton should comply to the code of conduct of the TC. And there are additional gravity conduct of conduct. Yeah. We have a, a gravity hold of conduct and yeah, here I say that gravity should comply to the code of conduct of the TC because we are in the TC. But if you are developing gravity in your organization, you can just yeah. Say that people comply to a code of conduct of your organization.  
Speaker 0    00:32:16    Gravitons accept cases basis on their competence and communicate the gravity working. They don't feel capable of handling an issue. Graviton should promote trust and group and good relationship with within the community. Is it required to complete the graviton training become a graviton. Graviton will upgrade. The GRA will update the gravity registry yeah. And is discouraged to use confidential gravity information. So to serve personal interest, if, if somehow we can prove this, we can explore expel someone from the gravity working group or violating the requirements of the graviton role. Any member can monitor graviton actions and report to other gravitons fill the type form or contact community steroids.  
Speaker 0    00:33:18    And, and that's why also gravitons on participate in community management. Because as we have been seeing along this, this, all this training, like conflict management is the last stage of, of, of not having a dispute. Like there's a big step before that is prevention. And gravitons if, if, if we only hope to be useful when people have a dispute, then we are fostering disputes. But that's why the graviton tasks is not only to be useful when a dispute arises, but also to be able to prevent a dispute. And that's why graviton should be also very involved in the cultural build of your, of, of their organizations. And as individuals promote dialogue within the organization and, and manage conflict as a collective take decision on the implementation of, of graduate sanctions and as both as, as collective and individuals to commit to a practice of preventing, contextualizing and resolving disputes by attendance in our community practice, like, yeah, we cannot, we, we, we cannot measure our success in how many disputes we solve because other that way we, we will also need to like make a lot of disputes, but we can also measure our success like in the, in, in, in how people is feeling.  
Speaker 0    00:35:02    And if, if people feel valued, if people trust the community, then we can also say that we are having success because people feel that it's, if something happens, they will have a way to solve things, but it's not that a lot of things are happening so that we have to be running all the time. I feel that it would be a great success. It that, like we don't have a lot of disputes, but when we have them, we have clear ways to address them. So, yeah. And yeah, we, we, we also have a, a, a goal. And is that what, what I was saying before that people in the community recognize the agreements and cultural culturally acts coherently to the values of the organization, but the, if there is conflict, there are clear steps to follow in order to manage the situations in effective search and implementation of that respect the dignity of all parts involved.  
Speaker 0    00:36:04    And these are some of the, the things that gravity supports that see with, but also it can support your organization like actively promoting trust, recognize BA recognize boundaries and areas of potential dispute, support, communication between community members, promote community, resident and long lasting human relations and help to take decisions. And in the implementation of graduating sanctions, I think, yeah, this, this topic that I, that I raised, it, it was because this, this particular, this slide is, is a little bit old and we changed this. So now it's not a need to hold admin powers to, to manage system of communications because yeah, there are other working groups that, that, that do that and we can work in coordination with them. So, yeah, I, I think those are really the, the, the things that the gravity working group supports the TC with. And this is the, the guideline of, of, for scale of conflicts and graduate extensions.  
Speaker 0    00:37:30    There is, yeah, there is this forum post where we did a work to try to say, okay, what characterizes a small scale conflict? Okay. What can be the boundary of a mid scale conflict and what can be the boundary of a big scale conflict? And then what can be the suggested actions that we can propose to each scale of conflict? And if you see these suggested actions are really transformational actions, and that's why I don't really like to, to always call them like graduated sanctions because I, my idea, and I think a good idea with this is not to be punishing people, but to, to have ways of, of, of correcting behavior without being actually a sanction. So here you can see, like in all of them there, one way to, to solve a conflict is, is having a reconciliation re ritual. And I love this.  
Speaker 0    00:38:37    Every time I have a mediation, I ask to all of the parties to say to the other, I love you. I'm sorry. Forgive me. And thank you. And that unblocks a lot of, of, of doors. Like what sometimes when you hear the other part saying, I'm sorry, then you throw your, your, your word and your shield down and, and you say, okay, I can have a dialogue. And yeah, some, some of these actions are like having an informal CA call between parts and they can be settled within simple actions. There are actually no sanctions. The, the agreement is strictly between parts involved, but as the, the, the, the, the scale of a conflict goes bigger, we can have like ways of acting. And yeah, if, if, if needed, we can have an arbitration and the issue can be referred to our, to a court for application of legal actions.  
Speaker 0    00:39:48    But we also, if, if, if the, if, if the, if the issue that happens was like a direct attack to community, we can graduate ban people from the discord, like one day, one week, one month, one month. Maybe if, if the, if the conflict is too big, we can have like a public debate on the issue. So, yeah, the idea is not to have like one thing to do when a conflict arises, but to have like a whole portfolio of things that we can do and, and to solve. So here we can also have, like, tribe loves, love circles. We can have, yeah. A, a color ative solution. Maybe if it's an, a small scale conflict, you don't have to have like a written registry of the thing. But if, if the, if the thing is, is, is, is big enough, or if it needs it, or if the graviton feels that it's, it suits for the location, we can have like a form written agreement or, or, or management process registered.  
Speaker 0    00:41:10    Okay. And these are some of the ethical standards and requirements for, for gravitons. There is also this other forum post that says, yeah, that gravity members must commit to these exigencies that are required to join and stay. And is that becoming a graviton is a voluntary process. No one can for COER anyone to become a graviton. And we cannot force participation from the parties into gravity. Or like, if parties participate in gravity is because they of their will. We are not like, Hey, come to gravity or else, no, like gravity's just an option. And if you want to take it, we will, we will be here.  
Speaker 0    00:42:06    Gravity should be able to have self-determination. And we are trying to be self determinated fr from like, also from the leadership structures that we have. Like, it's not that if, if we, that we cannot be biased, when, when, when, when facing into a, into a conflictive situation or trying to facilitate if maybe yeah, we, we, we are not able to self determine mine ourself because we feel something, or we have a, a love relationship or, or with the, with someone who is involved in the conflict. Yeah. That that's not really, really good. And, and that's why we also ask the gravitons. If they, if, if they feel capable of solving a case and they act for a graviton to re to receive a case, it's also a voluntary act that the graviton must say that they feel incompetence to, to, to be self determinated in the case.  
Speaker 0    00:43:28    Yeah. And this is also related to, to, to the second point that the graviton must recognize when they're not capable of facilitating a conversation. Gravitons must also be competent on the issue. And that's why we are also trying to have mini a minimum of two gravitons handling a case because like, we don't know everything. So we need to have maybe an expert, if the case is related to coordination, maybe to have a subject matter expert, which has the, a lot of experience in coordination so that he or she can help us explore more creative ideas. When, when looking for solutions, gravitons must keep up with confidentiality. They must be IM impartial. And, and when we mediate or act as a graviton, we act with professional responsibility, like being a mediator is, is a profession. And, and here we are, we  
Speaker 3    00:44:54    Did we lose one? I can't hear him anymore.  
Speaker 4    00:44:57    Yeah. I can't hear, I was wondering about that as well. I was me,  
Speaker 0    00:45:08    And this is also something that is very important that it hasn't how long  
Speaker 5    00:45:15    You just came back. I think we missed a little bit of that.  
Speaker 3    00:45:21    Yeah. There was about a 32nd period where we couldn't hear you and now he is gone.  
Speaker 0    00:45:49    And, and that's  
Speaker 3    00:45:52    Sorry, Juan.  
Speaker 0    00:45:54    Yeah.  
Speaker 3    00:45:54    You, you, you've been really absent for like a minute now. We, you were completely gone for a period and we didn't hear anything you said for like an entire minute.  
Speaker 0    00:46:04    Sorry. Okay. I will, I will share my screen again. Yeah. I was, I was talking about the additional and exceeds that are required to join and stay in the collective. And it's all of this. You can read them. And it's important to have like rotation from, from gravitons. We are always having new trainings and this can be worked, but the initial idea is that one can only be a graviton three years in a row to avoid accumulation of power. So yeah, this would be like my first year. That would mean like in two years, maybe I won't be the lead of the gravity working group, but that also fosters a lot of this rotation and different leaderships that we want in the space. But as we are reaching to the top of the hour, I will jump to the second part. And it's the gravity deep dive. And yeah, this is another meme. This is the apology class. Sorry, no refund. So yeah, I will be opening these links.  
Speaker 0    00:47:23    We have a geek book in the token engineering commons, and yeah, this is a really big source of truth in our community. And I am sure all of your communities have this source of truth, but it's important to have these mechanisms understood and comprehended and acknowledged within, within this sources of truth. And as, as you can see, like here we can ha we have the, the, a description of what gravity do, what are our goals? And yeah, that way you, you can keep track of our, of our progress. And yeah, we are, we are focused on Eleanor Ostrom's principle, number four, five, and six, and is that rules are enforced by effective and accountable monitoring sanctions for violations should be graduated and conflict re solutions should be easily accessible.  
Speaker 0    00:48:32    And here we have, like, this is our manifesto. You can, the success of, of our project is that people recognize the cultural build and ask coherently. But when this filter rights there clear steps to follow, and the failure is that there's no recognition of these processes to address conflict in the organization. And that disputes arises without being challeng channeled to experts. And there is no control or accountable for over situations. So right now we are in a, we started with the first roadmap that was checked. We had our second roadmap, we checked with some bullet point spending. And right now we are in the third roadmap. And as you can see, some of, of these things are happening, like have the second graviton training, aiming to have 20 plus gravitons from at least three or four communities. I think here we have like four or five communities.  
Speaker 0    00:49:31    And I am thinking that we will have 20 more graviton, I think like around 30. And that's super awesome. Super cool. Thank you everyone. And initialize Dell discussions, how to implement us from principles and the commons framework to gravity, also looking for extra funding options. So once you finish the graviton training, you are going to come, if you want to and collaborate on, on, on reaching those goals, these goals with us, and like, yes, structuring our do managing our funds. And we will be actually submitting a proposal to the token engineering comments to fund some bounties. So the idea is that when you engage in gravity, you can also be rewarded and not only managing cases also facilitating the graviton trainings. And we are also looking for other ways to, to reward people that actually build trust and help to solve conflict and prevent it in their, in, in organizations.  
Speaker 0    00:50:49    So, yeah, there there's a lot of work to do. There's a lot of work to do, and we are also designing continuous education spaces, like the NBC book club that I always recommend you to assist. That is really cool. So yeah, this is the way that we are working and we will check this third roadmap in December. So yeah, in December we will be actually, we want to design one year long roadmap. So yeah, that way, or at least six months. So that, that way we have like clarity on where we are going and where we want to go.  
Speaker 0    00:51:39    This is our forum post. That is really good. And is the gravity easiest step by step? And yeah, we first have identification of cases and is that one of the parties to a dispute approach, gravity and request am mediation and gravity can also propose issues to manage and discuss. We have the screening phase that is when you approach to the parties and do like a mapping of the, of, of the, of the dispute. Then you look for solutions with the, with the parties, and then we have like a post mediation. That is the, the outcome of, of that. And yeah, these, these are very cool infographics that acid laser help us to do. But, and, and this is also a flow of a mediation process. Like first gravitous review documents from the parties and plan a mediation process. If the parties don't agree to don't agree to mediate, you cannot continue with the mediation because there's, there's no way to, to pursue an agreement if there's no, no willingness to, to get involved in the process.  
Speaker 0    00:52:52    But if people say yes, then, okay, you start reaching information and you start talking with the parties to engage in a dialogue, and then you make the, the space for, for, for the actual mediation. And if, if people don't reach to an agreement, the, the, the parties have the option to pursue the dispute to through other dispute solution mechanisms. Or if they, if they actually reached an agreement, then you assist the parties. I drafting the, the, the agreement and you also help on the transformation of actions that can be registered. So, and we are going to talk about the, the gravity registry. So, and yeah, this is assuming the, the post mediation outcomes, but I will take this five minutes to talk about the gravity registry. So what, what is the gravity registry? It's basically coordination repo in sand hub, where we raise tickets and we tag the gravitons to, to have like a registry of, of, of how are the cases going. This is not loading really well for me.  
Speaker 0    00:54:50    So here we, we have, we, we, we can see, and this is also an, an, an input that comes from the transparency and from the soft governance of, of the TC that we had this registry in a private spreadsheet. And it was like, Hey, I know that, that we don't want to give any sensitive information, but we don't want it to be like something very AWOLed to the community. So this is like a response to that. And I think this way, the management of the cases is very transparent, and we can also have a registry of the situations that we have handled. So here I will be opening an example. We have like a description of, of, of the conflict and maybe some additional actions or the transformational actions that were, that were suggested. But if you notice, there are no names here.  
Speaker 0    00:56:02    So this is the way that we protect people from, from, from being exposed when having a conflict, but we also permit the organization to have access and transparency to, to what were the, the, the things that happened and, and what were the actions that were done in that moment. So, yeah, as an example, this was on, on ninth of, of, on 11th of September. And they graviton in charge was me and the transformational action was to promote communication to solve the misunderstanding. So if someone wants to have more information about this case, or yeah, they can actually, they know who wa who was the graviton in charge. And if, if there are any EV evidence on the issue, there are also links to, to, to the, the mediation, to the mediation documents.  
Speaker 0    00:57:20    So, yeah, and here you can actually see what are the forms that we use. We have this form and this, this is the observation form. Yeah. This is the observation form. And this is the, the, when, when, when you approach to, to the parties to gather information from them, to try to map a, a dispute, you first gather to, to one of the parties and you make this contextualization, and then you come to the other party and make the same questions. And then you map what are the points of mutual interest and what are the points of mutual disagreements? So that way you can have like the first mapping of the dispute, and then when you have that mapping of the dispute and people agree with it, you can actually have a mediation session. And yeah, we have some agreement that are prior to the, to the mediation, but basically during the mediation we process, we also follow the NBC process, the, the observation filling needs and requests.  
Speaker 0    00:58:38    And, and the idea is that we ha have the observation previous to the mediation session so that we can have clear feelings and clear needs during this session so that we can fo focus mostly in making requests. And if there's an agreement, we describe it and then we make a private copy of this, and we link it to the, to the, to the ticket of the, of the gravity coordination space. So, yeah, basically that's the gravity process. That's what I wanted to share with you. We are mostly in the top of the, to people who want to jump right now, but I can stay for like 20 to 30 minutes to answer questions or continue the dialogue. I will also finish sharing that this is the first generation of graviton and all of these people are easy access points in our community. I, I love all of these people. And after this session, I will be updating. And after the end of the training, I will be updating this sheet so that it also includes the second generation graviton and that we can know who are the, the AC access points in the community. 
