Speaker 0    00:00:03    Yes, that is correct. I'll go more in depth. I think we're about ready to begin. I'll surely I'm gonna need the, the minutes to go more in depth. So let's get started. Why don't we? Okay. So as Huka said, the today's Mar master class or the gravity and training session is gonna be on the psychology of human leadership. And, and basically what it is, is I'm providing an ontology of leadership, a framework for everyone to understand how leadership works, because really leadership is it's an inevitable part of our lives, right? We're we're always being led.  
Speaker 0    00:00:51    Excuse me. Yeah, I'm gonna, I'm gonna ask everyone to please silence their microphone. I'm gonna have Indiana. There's gonna be like 30 minutes to, to get some questions then. So I'm just gonna talk for a lot of time and then we can discuss it together on the, on the last 30 minutes. So it's gonna be like one hour of me talking and then hopefully a lot of you, people can say for 30 minutes where we can have a discussion and yeah, that's, that's the dynamic. So as I was saying, we cannot escape being led really. And at the very minimum we're being led by our culture and our internalized values and really people who are interested in lit leadership wish to transform the sell from directed to directing persons and well, that's what it's, I mean, it's relevant for, for everyone, whether you're a manager or, or just contributor, what I'm gonna be talking about, hopefully will give you a, a better understanding of, of how these power dynamics work in terms of, of leadership.  
Speaker 0    00:02:07    So we, we experience leadership really in, in the, in the most explicit and considered state and in the working environment, right? And leadership really contains questions of how we cope with life. Intuitively. We, we think of leadership as, as, as something that is defined normatively, right? That it has some type of ethical expectation that is placed on leaders, but really the, the phenomenal leadership really extends beyond ethical expectations. It is, it is irrespective or indifferent of ethical expectations. There are gonna be, as we're gonna see, there are gonna be part of the dilemmas that get brought up in, in, in, in when someone is in a leadership position and where you're trying to mediate between a person individually and the team as a collective. So as I'm saying, it's, it's not only an inevitable part of our lives, but it is, it is critical. So I, I want to take this chance to like analyze leadership from a psychological lens.  
Speaker 0    00:03:20    And so let's start with defining leadership, right? Like let's, let's the, the working definition that I'm gonna be using for leadership is the determination of movement, right? Leadership as determination of movement. And as I said, it is the most relevant in the, in the professional sphere, in the working environment. And yeah, so there are, there are antithesis of leadership. There are states that make leadership not possible. And interestingly, freedom is the, the is one of theists of leadership. Another one is conflict, which is very relevant to being a graviton. And another one is a fully determined system, which is basically when, when someone or something is not leading another, but they are driven by invisible forces. For example, like we cannot say that the sun is leading the earth, right with their gravitational pool. It's just a determined system. That's part of our nature and, and, and the causes.  
Speaker 0    00:04:34    So the three states there are antithetical leadership is, is freedom because in situations where you can make decisions without experiencing direction from outside, we cannot say that leadership as we understand it takes place. So that's, that's definitely interesting. And I I'm sure can think a couple of, of ethical dilemmas that that would present. The second one is conflict, right? Conflict is it's really characterized by the fact that you cannot direct the actions of, of, of your opponents. People who are you're in conflict with, and as such a leader task inherently in conflicts is to end the conflicts by creating acceptance of the leadership relationship. And as I said, the third one would be fully determined systems where things just happen because of, I, for example, gravity or, or things that are not being directed, but are part of the structure, whether it's natural or AR artificial. And so I'm gonna be re referencing diagrams that I posted on the gravity channel. So if you're not on the gravity chat, please go there. It's gonna make it more easier. It's gonna make it easier. So right now, if you can look at,  
Speaker 1    00:05:52    By the way or not possible to be opened, normally it gives me some kind of warning discord itself. So I'm glad you posted them, but there's a bit of an issue with that methodology in the sense that they're not readable and that well in the size there. So that's all I was I'll I'll point out.  
Speaker 0    00:06:14    Okay. Okay. Well, I'm, I'm happy to compile them and send them out to everyone. Especially if you shoot me at DM and say, Hey, your presentation was okay, but I'd like to delve more deep into this. Unfortunately, cause the time constraint, I'm not gonna be able to really go a lot into the depth of these. So a lot of these things, I don't wanna say, you're gonna have to trust me on that. Take them for granted, but I invite you to definitely look at the resources and the, and the book that inspired this talk and I can share with you. But yeah, so as we can see on like on the first diagram, like leadership is the direction of movement. It is not chance influence. It is also a hierarchical social relationship in which you can reliably depend on others to follow, and it is not conflict and it is not war because in conflict in war, you cannot lead the person you're in conflict with that's the definition of it.  
Speaker 0    00:07:16    And so we start to, we can start to see how leadership is it's intrinsic to conflict management, because you wanna lead both parties into a situation that they can both agree and that they can compromise on. Right? So leadership is also successful endowment with social meaning we're gonna go more into depth in this, and it is also powerful and potential because it holds the capability to incur costs on others. This is one of the most interesting things might be somewhat. Obviously you think about it, but, but I mean people who are leaders, maybe they have your payroll. Maybe they have certain types of capital where if you're against them, they can push you away from the organization. So really what it is is it is powerful in the sense that you can incur costs for others. You can, there has to be consequences for people who do not wish to concede to your leadership position, right? And again, I'm not gonna go into the whole political correctness of it. Like, obviously take this word grain of salt. As I mentioned earlier, like leadership exists independent of ethical implications. It is very relevant to discuss that. But unfortunately I'm, I, I, I can't the time is, is not enough. So another thing is that, yeah, well, as I explained, leadership requires a promising goal. Really?  
Speaker 0    00:09:02    It, it, it has to be able to, it has to be able to, to motivate people and to create a MIS a meaningful goal that is visionary, that is achievable. And that will allow others to basically surrender their will to you. If you think about it, like the leader wants their, their first, they create their own will. And then they want people to, to follow em towards certain goal that they declare. So there, there are three things that, that, that go into this framework where there are leadership actions, there are leadership structures, and then there are leadership result. So leadership actions are in a sense constrained by the structure, the less structure that there is, the more that a leader needs to be able to, to their charisma. We're gonna define that the, the charisma aspect of it, but without a, a, a tructure in place, the organization depends more on the leader to actually lead the way.  
Speaker 0    00:10:09    It's very interesting that, that the leadership structures that we have right now, being that the state and institution, a company, they, they were brought on by leadership actions of the past, but they are not a leadership action per se, right. Leadership structure is a legacy of earlier leadership actions. I thought that was incredibly interesting because at least for me, I, I I'm infatuated with, with the, the notion of leav, a legacy behind that transcends, and that lasts longer than your 80, 90 years here on earth. So leadership structures are the legacy of earlier leadership actions and leadership results are the outcomes of, of these leadership actions. Unfortunately, sometimes it is hard to assess the leadership success, especially the, on, on long term projects. If you think about like, like, like a, a president's four year project or in my country six years. So it's, it's hard to assess, especially they have like a 10 year vision in place, but the more, the long term projects, the hard it is to, right.  
Speaker 0    00:11:26    So interestingly as well, like we can also think of culture in terms of leadership, right? Culture is, is the Psalm of leadership structures that, that we follow. They might be social and not professional, but there are, there are certain costumes that we have. And the aggregation of it seeing from psychological sense is culture. And they are closely tied to, to leadership and to leadership actions with people in the past that either were trailblazers, that, that, that ended up creating that type of structure that, that we still follow to the day. We do not think about it that way. I thought it was incredibly interesting. Also we started getting into more practical approaches. Leadership is not conceivable without goals, right there, there have to be there have to be goals. And, and really the, the goals that, that, that a leader projects, they require of course, leadership action, but they require some sort of exertion of will.  
Speaker 0    00:12:42    And, and to all overcome certain types of adversity that that is gonna lead from where you are right now, through the obstacle and into the state that you wanna get as a leader, or that you wanna get your team as a leader. And personally self leadership really means committing yourself to goals and pursuing them, right. It, it, it's, it's not only people professionally or, or your organization, but it's also a matter of sales leadership. If you commit to your goals, if you get the discipline to pursue them and to create a structure again, a leadership structure that can channel those leadership actions and actually achieve the leadership, your soul that you're envisioning. And so the first thing we, we, we're starting to create some sort of like, process, right, for a leader. Number one would be the formation of, will you, you a leader, someone or yourself, you have, you have some, some vision in your mind of where you wanna get at and talking about it in the professional context, number two would be the identification of followers, right?  
Speaker 0    00:13:43    So, so maybe grid started with, with this idea of TC and then with, from reading a post by, by Jeff, and then he approached levy and, and then they got Tam in. And so, but the first thing was someone in there, one of the co-founders had to have a will. And then that person identified the followers, approached them, persuaded them that their vision was achievable and meaningful too, not only achievable, meaningful, and, and then comes the leadership action. Right. And so where the leaders goals come from, right, it's, it's really, they, they arrive from disappointment or optimism and they're always ethical, right. They, they ultimately related to the past and they require the pulling of strengths.  
Speaker 0    00:14:37    And yeah. So another interesting part that I, that I encountered was that it it's really about the journey and not the destination and, and great tasks turn leaders into heroes, you know, being it, maybe getting to the moon or, or, you know, finding a new route to India that ended up finding a new continent, you know, it's, it, it started from, from, from a great task that someone envisioned and probably a lot of people told that person that he was crazy that leader or that she was crazy, but that person had the vision and the influence to articulate its own will in a persuasive way to actually get their followers, get enough followers to actually accomplish it in an organized manner and, and to, and will create a structure where the leadership actions can actually transform into results. Right. And so there are, there are really six aspects that characterize the magnitude of the problem, the denial of the need for change cooperation, with difficult followers, scale of dynamics and conflict between followers, difficulties in communication and traditional dysfunctional leadership structure.  
Speaker 0    00:16:06    So we can see how it it's, it's intricately tied to managing conflict, right? Change management is also a huge, I probably one of the most practical or, or one of the most clear, clear departments or roles where, where leadership takes place, you have to persuade people that the actual path where you wanna take, or the product or the service that you wanna launch is actually good for the company. And, and, and it requires a structuring. So people, people don't wanna change. Our, our minds can do marvelous things, but they function only with the, with the energy of a light bulb, right? So there, we we're lazy. It, it's not a bad thing. It's how we, we manage energy. And so sometimes organization needs a leader to actually go through the obstacles, to actually calm people's fears. And I don't mean fear like palpitations and like horror movie fear, but fear in terms of uncertainty, you can think of fear in the context that I'm gonna explaining as, as sort of like cancellation of entropy or, or as neutralizing of entropy, we wanna be led, we wanna be directed.  
Speaker 0    00:17:34    We wanna clear hot gold, and we wanna know how to get there. Right. And so now we, we, we start thinking, okay, like, what are the, one of the things that a leader needs, right? Like competence is, is something a major aspect in informing hierarchies, right? You have to have certain types of skills to have the sensitivity, to position people with special skills in the right position of the organization. And we can see that like pretty explicitly in the animal kingdom, right? How they distribute their roles within a pack of walls and within, within ES and, and our types as well. Of course, we have more intricate ways of dealing, essentially.  
Speaker 0    00:18:21    I'm gonna, I'm gonna start talking about, about charisma now, right? How, how, how to generate leadership strength through confidence and trust and the, the leadership attribute of charisma. It's, it's somehow understood ethnical, irrational, sometimes even associated with like seduction and dilution even, but, but really it's neither good or bad. It's, it's, it's it, there's no sense in criticizing charisma, right? It really, what it is is it's not God given we can grow and develop it. But what it is is a courage value person has the ability to calm people's fears, right? To, to bring people to a, a peace of mind that when they are being led by you, if, if, if they, if they agree to be led by you, you will not let them down. In terms of maybe meeting the goals, a salary, a certain type of work organization is structure, perks, et cetera, you know, different things that leaders can offer.  
Speaker 0    00:19:38    And what really the, the basic condition for literacy success really are a goal, right? We need a goal. We need to, we need to know how to confront people that you lead with this goal and how to deal successfully with the emotions that the goal brings into people. This is, this is perhaps one of the, the most interesting things in leadership goals. They're not, they're not rational, or actually they are rational, but they bring out emotional. They have emotional consequences in people. I mean, you can only imagine, like, I don't know, like steep jobs when, when he first told people that he wanted, you know, his whole music library and, and, you know, a small, a small machine of the size of an iPod, you can imagine like how these people reacted emotionally. Like this is impossible. You cannot do this. It's a waste of money and resources. We're gonna get you whole fire. So it was irrational. They maybe probable or, or, or hard to accomplish task, but it, it elicited an emotional reaction and a leader needs to be able to be savvy rationally, to be able to articulate their goals and to create the structures that lead people to the goal, and emotionally as well, have that emotional intelligence to lead with people, to, to manage the people and, and the, the, the, the consequences, emotional consequences that, that, that are gonna write from people.  
Speaker 0    00:21:14    And so the greater of the goal, really the, the more need of the charisma, because they cost intense emotions. And really, you cannot ignore charism more rejected if you want great leadership to take place. I mean, Griff is a great example of a great leader, charismatic person, extremely competent, really knowledgeable. And he's, he's been able to, to, to lead the tease into where we are at like Blanca. I mentioned it, he, it's a great example of all the stewards really, but let's say gravity Wonka had the leadership action to create the leadership structure of gravity and the second gravity and training, right. Gravity in general, in a specific second gravity and training. And it's gonna leave a legacy that is gonna outlast him and his position as, as the gravity steward. So that's a clear cut example of leadership frame within the structure that I've provided.  
Speaker 0    00:22:11    And again, charisma is very related to, to fear, but fear here is meant more as a, a, a basic urge to act, right? The fear of not achieving goals that could be achieved and not realizing the potential that that can be realized, not making the most of, of the most of your life. The most of your opportunities is a type of fear that I'm, that I'm, that I'm talking about. Right. So fear really generates the emotional readiness readiness to allow oneself, to be, to be led. And, and now, if you look at number two, figure 2.1 trust as a source of charisma, we can see how, how trust is deeply linked with the integrity. That is honesty there to principle humanism, and with the con confidence that comes with having competence fitness, and the hope that something is achievable.  
Speaker 0    00:23:10    So charismatic leaders really need to, to instill trust, right. And something very interesting is how fear is related to leadership. I think, I mean, given the, the, the situation that we're living right now globally, we've seen a lot of fear mongering, and it's, it's interesting how it's interesting to understand that, that, that leading is also related to fear. And I, I, I, I cannot stress this enough. Whenever someone is trying to frame a situation in a way that Elis fearing you ask, where are they trying to lead you to? Right. Cause so fear is usually accompanied by a solution. And I'm gonna go more into that in a little bit about how the, the ability to frame a situation as a crisis is also incredibly important. Right. And so something else interesting is charisma is relative really it's time dependent. It's culturally, it, it, it really there there's, there's really not a, not a set of personality traits that, that, that equate charisma. It really depends on the culture and on the, on the goal.  
Speaker 0    00:24:41    And, and so, yeah, going more into, into the, okay, so another thing is the, the, if, if, if you look at the number three, the actual, the four different orientations, so we, depending on where we fit on, on these orientations, depending on, depending on if we are relationship oriented or stimulation oriented, balance oriented, or autonomy oriented, I'm gonna go more into depth of those, depending on, on, on which type of orientation we are. We respond differently to, to people leading us. Right. And that's very interesting because we have to understand, we have to have this sensitivity with regards to people we have to upon talking to them and maybe having an onboarding call, or just 31 hour type of getting to know one another, a leadership skill that pays off is actually realizing what type of orientation that person is, so that you know, how, how you can lead, lead them towards a certain goal that you might have.  
Speaker 0    00:25:55    And so really what I'm trying to say is that behavior is influenced by offering of meaning. And we seek different types of meaning, depending on our orientation on the rational side is meaning the leads, but, but on the emotional side, like I said, it's the, the, the desire to, to decrease fear in terms of fulfilling one's goals. And, and so, as I've said, power is the, the ability to induce negative consequences and really creating positive emotional experiences requires like initiative the part of the leader. We, we, we don't want a leader who only leads by, by, by threats or, or by type type of action, by the way, as I'm talking about this, having mind having the back of your mind, how these pertains to dowels, right? Because this is very hierarchical and, and vertical in a way dos are more horizontal. So this theory, in a sense, I'm still, I'm, co-creating a way to adapt this into a dial context with every one of you. So definitely bear that in mind. And yeah. So, so really meaning power and initiative, you know, kinda like the trifecta of leadership, they can compensate each other to a certain extent, right.  
Speaker 0    00:27:30    Maybe right now in the economic sphere of a lot of leaders, don't have the opportunity to make really big offerings in terms of meaning. I think in the DC we can, because what we're trying to accomplish of, of building bottom down, bottom up economies, but it, that's not the case. If you work like in wall street, like that's just make money, right. Greed is good type of type of frame, which neither good or bad. It just is pathologically bring to an accessor. It has bring area consequences, but we're all already seeking in, in, in a certain magnitude. Right. So if we think about it, right, the, the meaning offered by a Catholic church was so vast throughout history in Western Europe, that, that really the Pope didn't need any armies. Right. So it could lead people just spiritually. And I don't think we're, we're gonna end up getting to a point, but there, there are different ways to legitimize leadership.  
Speaker 0    00:28:34    And one of them like farrows was okay, I am God, right? That's like the far only legitimization with King's right. The monarchic one is I am God, 3% with the genius. One it's more, more down to our era is I am more brilliant, talented than others. Therefore, I, I lead, I can lead and trust is others trust that trustworthy, thus, I can lead others so we can see how trust interplay with leadership as well. And, and yeah, if, if you look at again, I'm, I'm like really trying to go fast through these, but there's a lot of content, right? So again, I invite you to, to dive deeper into this in your own time later, I can point into the resources. We can talk about it, like on one, on one, this is extremely interesting to me. I I'd love to talk about it. If you look at number six and how the persuasion assertion and motivation complement one another as a three leadership strategies, we can see how it's mostly emotional, right?  
Speaker 0    00:29:42    Like most of them are emotional and, and yeah, so a leader wants to endure goals with meaning, wants to put meaning into goals, which are just patients and interception of the future. And they have a reason to do that. It might not be explicitly verbalized, but we can trying to, we can get at the fact that there's a reason behind them by the amount of exertion that, that is that, that, that the leadership is trying to summon in a way, right. By the team behind it, by how complex this structure is or intricate, maybe be a better word.  
Speaker 0    00:30:29    And, and so, yeah, in, in, in a more like a corporate context, we can see how profitability, performance and corporation are are, is how leadership is break down. Right. And yeah. So the another thing is, is having, having, you know, like, like operationally having strategies to assert power, it doesn't really have to be, I I've always found fascinating how, like, in, in movies and series, especially like house of cards, resilience, how you have people and, and, and when they wanna lead another person, they just go out and start telling a story, right? That that's a symbolic representation of power. They are, they are, they are trying to get at that person without rationally telling 'em do this or do that. But they're trying to get at sideways, right. Through a story that is going to convey emotionally that you should follow them. The, the person who's telling the story, or that if you do not follow them, there will be consequences.  
Speaker 0    00:31:44    Because we said power is the capability to produce unpleasant consequences. A lot of these stories, instead of threatening someone, you can tell a story about someone who didn't do what you told 'em to do, or who didn't follow your leadership and something bad ended happening. Doesn't have to mean that you caused that. But, you know, there are different type of leaders, I guess, like I said, it's a great social phenomenon. And so assertion is an internal part of leadership, right? We can see here on, on, on fear number nine table 3.1, how there's tension crises, escalation, and the breakup, or a change in the relationship.  
Speaker 0    00:32:26    And yeah, so three essential forces for, for motivation, right? We go more into the psychological mechanism. Motivation being, being motivated is really the inner compulsions in the needs, right? If you're gonna motivate someone, you need to know their inner compulsions and their needs. And this is what I, what I was talking about with the four orientations that each person has. I, if they are relationship oriented, if they're stimulation oriented, if they're autonomy oriented, and if they're balance oriented and really their whole, their whole lens of how they look at the world, how they perceive it, how they internalize situations is gonna be colored by that particular type of orientation. So it's very useful to know at the very least your orientation, so that you know how to react, how you react to situations because they have, they have pros and cons, different types of orientations, depending on the situation that you're engaging in.  
Speaker 0    00:33:25    And so, number one, you're in the inner compulsions and the needs. Number two, the rewards in the compensation, right? You have to provide rewards, be it praise, be itch, be it die. Be it dollars. There has to be some rewards and compensation. And number three, the, the quality of trading, the same path together, right? The culture of build the, the fact that we're all in this together. We have created this harmonious community. Everyone's respect, everyone respects one another. We encourage one another. We empower one another. And that's part of, of, of motivating people, right? Once they get in the community, they contrast our community with their own community. And they say, what the fuck am I doing? Working nine to five? When people are, you know, working in dials all over the world, everyone's nice to one another. It's sort of like utopic in a way. I'm sure there are, there are things that issues that need to be focused on and we're working on them. But I think it's, it, it it's a way forward. It, it we're progressing in terms of a leadership structure from the corporation to the distributed autonomous organization, right? It, it is a leadership structure, hashtag things. So leaders grow when they learn to adapt themselves to different employees, right? To their orientation of, of their particular employees. And leadership is always instrumental. If you don't want to be instrumental as a leader, then nothing will improve.  
Speaker 0    00:34:51    And so leadership does not take place in vacuum. It happens in real situations and you, you, interestingly, if everything is moving in the right direction and everyone is going a certain way that I've planned, there's no need for leadership, right? And, and more, more over leadership ambition even generates resistance. If there's no problem to solve, people are like, why, why do we need you as a leader? Why do we, which subconsciously what that means is why would I want to surrender my will and my time to you when there's really no problem that you're attempting to solve, right? And this is how, how this is why crisis framing a situation as a crisis. And, and, and we can look at this and figure 4.1, right? Like framing a situation as a crisis, having the situation sensitivity, to interpret a situation as a crisis and declare it as a crisis and say, Hey, you know, I'm the one who's gonna lead people, you know, through this crisis and into a solution.  
Speaker 0    00:36:11    And so the term ization means that you have to basically frame a situation a certain way, and totalize the perception of the followers in a way that they will leave, they will accept your leadership role. Right? And I mean, we can, we, we see that nowadays with, you know, with the crises that we're having, either your, your pro, the, the, the vaccine, or, or pro staying in your home, whatever it is, they are framing the situation as a crisis. And because they frame the situation as a crisis, they have a lot of maneuver, a lot of power that people give them, really people surrender their own power to leaders when they can frame a situation as a crisis. And so interestingly leaders have, there's a tactical advantage if you will, on being unethical and, and framing as, as exaggerating a situation as a crisis, because people will surrender their power to you. Of course, I, I I'm against that, but I'm just saying, it, it, it happens. It happens a lot, especially in politics, right? So again, whenever someone framed the situation as a crisis, either because a country has nuclear weapons, or because their con the virus came from somewhere, or because X, Y, Z the always a leadership, a leadership direction, leadership, if you will necessitates that you declare a crisis so that other people will surrender their will to you.  
Speaker 0    00:37:57    I thought I was incredibly interesting. And so, in a way, you need to have the situation sensitivity to interpret that situation from the perspective that needs leadership, right? Because with other crisis, really, there is no need for leadership. People are just, you know, walking like it's an video, everyone. Everything's cool, everything's Gucci, but it's really when there's a crisis, when, when, when the situation needs a leader to resolve that crisis. And, and so, as stimulus can be provided for, for the leadership, if, if, if, if there are structural elements in place. So what I'm trying to say is, is to the close situation of crises, a leader basically is making two fundamental statements, right? There is pressure to act and a decision needs to be made.  
Speaker 0    00:38:47    Like it's incredible how, how much this applies to mainstream media and, and how, and how they, they frame certain situations in a way that is exaggerated. I'm not saying that the current crisis is not grave, and that requires sacrifices. I'm just saying that they have, they are getting an advantage, right. From framing it in a way that induces fear in people and exaggerating, et cetera. So bear that in mind, whenever someone tries to lead you to a certain situation. Right. And so, yeah, going, we looked at the actual state, how there's a crisis or an obstacle and leader wants to get through that to the state. That's when that's figure 11 and figure 12, again, it's the actual situation, but there's pressure, right? There's a need for decision making. And the leadership action is gonna stimulate a path towards the goal that is gonna solve that situation and is gonna release that tension.  
Speaker 0    00:39:50    And that pressure, and even, even in the, even like the heroes journey is, is really framed from a leadership lens. If you think about it, it's like, okay, a character in a zone of comfort, but they want something. So they enter an unfamiliar situation and they adapt to it, right? The opposite with the unfamiliar situation, or maybe be led by a new leader, they adapt to it because they have new role that they have to perform. Now, they get what they want in the rewards and the stimulus that they get from the leader. Maybe they pay a heavy price for it because they can see their family that much, they have to travel to far away lands or battle a dragon or, or a sourcer that does debt magic. I don't know, but they return to their leader situation having changed and all this really it's, it's, it's, it's a leadership character arc. I, I, I wouldn't say that that's too out there to think that. And, and so there are three problem problem types with different leadership strategies, right. There are decision making problems through innovation problems, information problems. But right now, as we are entering the, the last quarter of the class, I like to go into the conflict management of, of, of leadership. Let me just look for it in my notes.  
Speaker 0    00:41:23    Yeah. Okay. So how do you, how do you, how do we generate leadership strengthen in conflict situations, right. As we said, conflict, free groups to not require leadership, right? So conflict management is gonna require a lot of leadership. Honestly, a lot of leadership you have to mediate to people. They wanna get their own way. You have to, you have to have the situational sensitivity to know what's their orientation, right. Are they stimulation oriented? Are they relationship oriented? Like what, what do they want, or, or how do they, what is something that, that you can offer them? Both of them that will meet their demands, at least halfway. Right. And, and our compromise can be, can be reached. So something, oh, man, the something interesting is that revolutions, this is like, like a tangent or like, like a, like a, like a, something apart, right. Revolutions result from crises.  
Speaker 0    00:42:32    But the changes, it revolutions also create victims, right? They create victims. And the, the really the changes that are triggered by good leadership are simply organic growth. And the sorry about that. Yeah. The organic growth that we need is, is, is something that, that, that is longer lasting than revolutions. Really. And we can think of the Catholic church missionary efforts at, as integrating existing structures, they went into indigenous communities and they try to frame Christianity in a way that would somehow, you know, seem familiar to people who ate humans or sacrifice humans, you know, in their religious rituals. So, yeah. So the more conflict going back to, to conflict situations, the more conflict written a group piece, the greater it's need for leadership. I mean, think about the Israel, Palestine conflict right now, how much leadership that needs. And throughout hundreds of years, it hasn't been able to resolve because there hasn't been a leadership figure or the leadership structures created, the leadership actions have been insufficient, even detrimental, I'd say, but that's, that's just how it is.  
Speaker 0    00:44:05    So something else that I found really interesting is that a person's character is revealed in conflict, right? So once you understand how people deal with conflict, you have understood their character. A friend of mine once told me that he went to this, this interview, you know, a big shot firm. And they like the interviewer was basically just staring at him. Didn't answer. Didn't like, do any questions. So the interviewer basically presented that person with a crisis in a way, like, like, what am I supposed to do? Right. There's tension. Like, I don't know if I'm supposed to do something. And by seeing how that person reacted to that manufactured conflict, they were able to understand that person's character, they were trying to assess their character. Right. So, yeah, like, like I said, like in the context of the poor, basic orientations or fear that we describe long you're into people entering into conflict.  
Speaker 0    00:45:07    If, if the perception of specialists or status as standing out from the crowd is threatened. That's very interesting. If, if someone's trying to steal their spotlight, they they're gonna have a problem with that. Right. Relates to oriented people on the other. On the other side, they enter into a conflict. If they feel rejected and on love, right? They wanna feel that affection, that bonding, not talking about augmented curve here, but put actual social human bonding and the simulation oriented people, they enter into a complex they're forced into a straight jacket of roof, right. They wanna, they want try the, the 37 flavors of basking Robb, or I don't know how many they have. Right. They, they, they want to be stimulated by different paths of action. So when you put them into a, a rigid structure, there's gonna be a problem with simulation oriented people, it's structure oriented people.  
Speaker 0    00:46:02    On the other side, they, they, they are, they're also called balance oriented. And they're the other way, right? They enter into a comp if the world appears to unstable too unpredictable, too uncertain. Right. So now we can see how within our organization, four, four people like four different orientational people are gonna be co-creating the, the, the value that, that, that is driving the organization, that the product or the service and a leader, a leader has to have detached to understand. Let's say in our context, within a working group, what's the best leadership structure for the people in it. Right? Like it, it like it, are we, do we want something that's rigid?  
Speaker 0    00:46:56    Yeah. You can please mute your mic, please. Yeah. As I was saying, so in every conflict lies the, the ambivalence between assertion and relationship quality, but really both cannot be optimized at the same time. Right? You can either assert yourself as a leader or especially if, if the person, if the person I'm not saying they cannot, cannot be mediated and compromised. But if a person does not, if a person does not surrender their will to you or, or a missing word here, if they don't recognize your leader, your leadership position, then you cannot assert yourself and keep the, the relationship like healthy, right. You either have, you have to assert yourself before, at least in the, at least if you wanna get the goal on, right. It, it it's debatable whether it's worth it to lose that relationship or the assertion, but that's just the way leadership works, right. Again, it brings it, it brings ethical dilemmas, power brings ethical dilemmas and, and conflicts really unavoidably contain negative emotions, obviously.  
Speaker 0    00:48:15    But really it it's about the role. It's not about the person. This was also something really useful for me. If you have a problem with maybe sometimes we have problems with our or our family, right? If you have a problem with your mom and your dad, it's, it's usually cuz of their role as a guardian. It's not because who they are as a person. And that's a very important distinction that we fail to make. Sometimes we especially, I would find that really valuable in a conflict management situation where you say, look, I don't have a problem with you as a person. I actually like you, maybe you're, you're a little bit of a Dick, but I admire that in you because I'm really nice. And sometimes I get, Avan taken advantage of so really my problem or the issue is with the way you've exercised your role and, and how it has, you know, how that has affected me negatively.  
Speaker 0    00:49:15    Right? So that's also very useful in terms of conflict management and really successful conflict management is an act of leadership. If we go into the figure, if we go into figure seven point, which is actually number 17, we can see, you know, different phases of conflict, right? The, the area of conflict, how there are potentially different interests and emotionally in charge opinions. And, and there are, there are conflicting elements that are Laly present, but are not openly noticed about the moment. So there's tension, right? There's tension that needs to be resolved, needs to be brought into the, the forefront and needs to be picked that delicately. So emotions are really noticeable when there's tension and, and if, if they escalate integration comes into play, then now we have like a more serious problem.  
Speaker 0    00:50:16    And, and so open arguments need to take place and they settle the dispute needs to needs to adapt to the fact that now both parties have turned destructive in a way. And so something else that I've found extremely interesting in conflict management, right, is that leadership leaders' obligations are to their goals, not to relieving specific emotional stress in an internal relationship, right? So this might be, this might be colored by some sort of like utilitarian worldview, but really like we're, we're thinking of leadership. Okay. Like there are actions that need to be done. There is a path that needs to be taken and, and really a leaders' obligations are to their goals. Not necessarily to the relationship of the people. Like I'm not saying leaders need to, you know, need to completely forget the personal needs of their employees. I'm just saying that maybe the priority of them completing their goal takes a higher degree of, of, of, of precedence versus, you know, taking care of the, of the, of the leadership of the leader follower relationship.  
Speaker 0    00:51:49    And if we go into just to, to finish out number 18, right? The, the forming storming norming performing, you know, it's the four phases of group development. These is really very, very similar to the canopy framework that has presented in a previous session. And so I'm gonna have a one-on-one with him later on to see how we can bring this two together. But basically forming is like the first phase of the group development, right? Where group members meet, they get to know one another form relationships. Ideally you get to know, people understand the different orientation of other people so that they know how they want to be treated. It's not always, you know, geared towards manipulation. It's really like, how do this person like to be treated? What is this person looking for in terms of professional and, and relationships, right? So that's number one for me, number two, storming, right? The storming phase, the more conflictual part of group dynamics and there there's increas reation of relationships.  
Speaker 0    00:53:03    And, and that's how the areas of conflict suddenly become apparent. And sometimes they're even activated and the different roles in understanding arise and predominant among the team members that lead to conflict in underneath for regulation. Number three, norming is when the group members find their rule, their rule book and their roles, and a culture is created and the structures are, are established and for performing right, the performing phase is when the roles in the team have been clarified, relationship are established and the process negotiated and the group can dedicate itself efficiently to common goals. And so Dugas will correct me if I'm wrong, but the forming corresponds more or less to the chaotic one to the chaotic part in the ING framework, the storming phase on the complex one on the complex part, the norming phase on the complicated phase, on the ING framework and the performing one to clear base in the ING framework. Again, these are no,  
Speaker 1    00:54:09    I would say if you swap storming and forming, you'd be okay. I think storming is chaos and forming would be complex. And then,  
Speaker 0    00:54:18    Oh, my bad then forming is complex. The storming is chaotic. The norming is complicated and the performing isn't clear. And again, this is just trying to get some closure or, or connect these leadership framework that I'm, that I'm even you guys to previous ones that, that we had in the previous strings. And, and yeah. So good leadership position. I'm sorry. Good leadership communication is active and proactive. Not, not reactive or passive, right. It is directive directive and goal oriented. And as you can see on, on figure 19, we can see both ends of the spectrum, right? Passive being the negative one, active being the ideal or the positive one situational versus directive egocentric versus sensitive.  
Speaker 0    00:55:10    I, I definitely, oh man, like honestly, like a lot of these frameworks when I was studying and preparing the class, I gonna help with think of, of TA of levy, of funk, of chewy, of, of bud as of, of gr of a lot of leaders that we have in the community as stewards and how they already employ these techniques. Maybe they do them unconsciously and, and they've, they've gotten to them by practice, but having a really like an explicit understanding of how leadership affects us, I think is extremely valuable. And yeah, well, honestly I can keep going, but I'd like to stop talking and open the conversation now for people to just give us some thoughts, maybe some questions and just talk about what leadership entails to you and how do you, how do you see these reflected in your social and professional fears? So I'm gonna open up now, if anyone wants to ask question or make some comment,  
Speaker 3    00:56:24    I wanna jump in, cause I have to jump to another call, but I have to say that this one's extraordinary. When I opened that up and opened up that 63rd, 63 page notes of yours, I just was floored. And I think that you've covered so much. And so you went into so much detail and everything. I, I think we should, I don't know how to like bring this more into our working groups and into the, our cultural build, but this was really, really exceptional amount of things for thanks for doing this amazing work.  
Speaker 0    00:56:54    Thanks Sam. It means a lot coming to you. Thank you. And, and yeah, I honestly think this has the potential to become like a biweekly type of thing where, where I give like presentation of power on, on leadership and, and people come in and we can educate the community web through community on, on how leadership structures are created and, and, and within, you know, the doubt space. So thank you Tom for that. And yeah. If, if anyone else has some questions, if Wanka, you wanna say something, please feel free to,  
Speaker 4    00:57:35    Yeah, man. Don know, thank you. I think this and your presentation and, and the choosing of the words was exceptional. Yeah. I, I, I also liked a lot the way you framed the relationship between leadership and conflict management and how much do we need leadership in a conflict management situation where we are yeah. Trying to, to, to align, to conflictive parts into, into a common goal. So, so yeah, in, in that you have to play the role of, of, of, of, of the leadership to try to have empathy with them and to know what, why, what are their concerns and, and also how can you like yeah. Promote trust between the parts, but also, and this is something that I will be talking more in depth next week is that no decision is, is, is perfect. Like, like when, when you are in a leadership position, only if, if, if you like impose it, then that's the case when you are not going to have people thinking differently.  
Speaker 4    00:58:57    But when, when you are in a, in a, in a, in a leadership position and also managing conflict, there, there are going to be always different alternatives to go. And no alternative is going to be like the last, the last one, or is going to be like the, the, the heaven on earth. You are always managing, you are always creating a space. And, and, and it's normal that if you take a decision there there's other people that is going to be thinking differently. And, and it's important to respect that because yeah, like the leadership we want is not an positive leadership and, and giving the, that space for, for creativeness and, and allowing other voices to be heard, goes with the, with this type of leadership that we are promoting, that is a, more of a leadership coming from motivation and from agency and not for, for, from any type of imposition. And, and yeah, I, I, I really liked this, this session a lot, but I also want to, to open the space for, for other people that want to talk.  
Speaker 5    01:00:14    Cool. Yeah. I'll just say Trevor was really well done.  
Speaker 0    01:00:17    Thanks. Thanks, VE yeah.  
Speaker 5    01:00:21    Yeah. I could share something too. Yeah. At first, thank you. This, this was really great. And I think it came in a moment where I was questioning so much leadership. So we felt really good to listen to what you had to bring today. And some questions that I've been thinking a lot is how to avoid that people status sways into decisions and how to build structures that offer the same privileges to everyone. And sometimes I think being in a leadership position can can like that, that the, the voice of the leader has more authority or something, but it was interesting listening to you that I think that authority can be built in a way that it's actually beneficial for the whole. And not that this is something harmful and that needs to be questioned all the time. And sometimes accepting leadership is like, what makes us go in a better direction for everyone? And that it's not necessarily a hierarchical position of, of power, but just a role like any other and how it, it has like an important place on the functioning of, of a system, but it was really, yeah. Really great to listen to everything. Thank you for bringing this up. And I, I resonate with what Tim said that it would be really cool to have this more integrated and most of our processes.  
Speaker 0    01:02:08    Yeah, definitely. This is, this is something that I see has a lot of potential for soft call for. I mean, really soft, really like obviously every working group requires some sort of leadership, but maybe the ones the most relevant would be soft club would be omega because as we said, it power creates ethical dilemmas. And yeah, I, I encourage everyone to, to, again, dive deep, deeper into this top, this topic, shoot me a, a direct message. If you'd like a link to the book, or just a link to the notes, the notes is like 63 pages. The book is like 250, I think. And really if, if we want to distribute, as you said, Libby distribute the, the influence that leaders have more evenly throughout other members of the community. It's imperative that people understand why in the first place they want to be led by a certain person.  
Speaker 0    01:03:19    Like, how is that person? Like, what does that person have that I am attracted to being led by that person? Why do I wanna follow that person? Like we said, it's because that person has certain goals. And, and it's charismatic in the sense that the fears that we have of not realizing those goals and of missing out on the opportunity that, that the realization of those goals would've led us to can take us. So the more people understand this ontology of leadership that I've presented, by the way, it's just a tip of the iceberg. Like I'm gonna keep repeating it because I've only scratch the surface of what this means, but the more people understand this, the easier will be to distribute power evenly across the community, because people will shift between being directed and directing, as they see fit, they'll start developing the skills and the competence that they need to rise up to certain positions of authority, because more responsibility is, is this to upon them.  
Speaker 0    01:04:25    It's not just status for status sake, right? With power grade comes very responsibility. The, the, the, the much right quote from Spiderman, it's true in, especially in the leadership context. And yeah, honestly, this is extremely interesting to me. And I see it as being so, so valuable in our community, because imagine if this is, this is not something that, that, that is talked about, or this is not something that is understood openly understood in, in, in a capitalist context, in the web two space, if you, you feel so web three, you know, post capitalist systems that we're trying to build, we have to look at this psychologically and subliminally then like, okay, why are we being led by people who, who fear monger? Like, why are we being led by these platforms or by these organizations that, that exaggerate, or that, that portray things in a certain type of way. Like, I'm always very, very skeptical or very cautious about someone who frames a crisis in a certain way. And they suddenly become the Messiah to lead people into the solution of that crisis. It's like, okay, that's fair. But like, is this per this person obviously has an interest in exaggerating the situation to portray himself as a solution to this situation.  
Speaker 0    01:06:05    And even scapegoating, as we've seen historically scapegoating, different, different types of people, different nationalities, different even class social classes, social economic classes. So all of these can be seen through psychological leadership plans. And it is incredibly useful to just look at our own life and the lives of the people around us, both micro and macro and see how leadership affects us. So, yeah, I'm gonna open it again. If someone wants to comment or ask anything, I see a other issues. Yeah.  
Speaker 6    01:06:48    Yes. Thank you. This has been like one of my favorite sessions so far. It was incredibly validating to hear this from my vantage. I spent 13 and a half years in the armed forces, and I'd never do it again, but I've never seen anything work more efficiently than when you like manipulate and psychologically like mess with a bunch of people to break down power structures. So like hearing the power stuff was just like, oh, it was awesome. I had this flashback of a, a power dynamic thing. That's like a psychological tool in military training. And it's where you take the person that everybody's mad at, or the person that's getting everybody in trouble and you make them the leader. And then what happens is they treat everybody with their power in front of drill sergeants, awful. And then when the drill sergeants are not around, everybody gets to exact their revenge.  
Speaker 6    01:07:53    And it's how we socially like deconstruct power dynamics between a group to like, make sure that like the military maintains the power. It was wild. So like hearing, hearing it be brought into this space, which is super validating because power dynamics affect everything and people are so conditioned by their environments since so many people are like decolonizing, whether they realize it or not out of an abusive relationship with capitalism. And there's so much psychology involved in that. And I think that's ultimately what's impacting folks and the fear of like structures and organization within itself, like being afraid to like, make people have any power, because they're so afraid of those dynamics. I don't know. Yeah, it was invigorating. Thank you.  
Speaker 0    01:08:43    Awesome. Thank, thank you for sharing. That's that's very interesting. Yeah, definitely. Again, the more we understand this concept, the more we maybe even treat charisma as not these like superpower that only celebrities and politicians have, but something that you can grow yourself by knowing what it entails and how to develop it and how it actually works within the work within the workplace. The, the, the better we, the better we, we, we can be followers, even not only leaders, but followers and understand how a leader's decision affects us. If it's something that we wish to surrender our will to, or if it's something that is counter to our morals or our ideals or our goals. So, yeah. Thank you for sharing that all issues. That's interesting to see that dynamic that, I mean, definitely the military is, is, is where leadership is perhaps the, the, the most trained at, or, or the most yeah. The most where, where people go there to actually learn the leadership skills and the discipline, and actually what it means. Yeah. I wish they would taught me this in school because it's, like I said, it's so expensive. It's all encompassing and it's very useful, but it is where it's. So yeah. Anyone else have any thoughts, comments or questions?  
Speaker 1    01:10:20    Yeah. I was just gonna say that between liberating structures, which is a way of kind of decentralizing away from specific leadership things and sort of spreading that out, you know, there's a bunch of different strategies for that. I think it's really useful to understand the basic ontology of leadership since it has been so centralized so that we can, you know, figure out strategies for decentralizing it. So it'd be really interesting to see how the work that you've done meshes up with the different strategies for sort of subverting leadership in some way, with the, with the liberating structure side of the thing. So maybe we could talk about that too. Nick, when we meet.  
Speaker 0    01:11:09    Yeah. Yeah definitely. I'd be open to, to seeing how we can, how we can talk about this and how we confuse, like the fin and, and the framework that I, I mentioned if they're even not even fusing, but complimenting one another. Sure. Yeah. And Bianca, I know you wanna talk, I don't know who, I don't know who muted you. I didn't. Juan, can you on, oh, there you go. Okay, cool.  
Speaker 5    01:11:38    Oh, thank you so much. It's because I have family here today. It's a holiday in Brazil. I'm sorry. But my question is like, with all those skills that you presented, and as you say, like we can develop it. My, my question is if there is any like personality type that Mets with leadership better, or anyone can be like a good, a good leadership, a good leader.  
Speaker 0    01:12:15    Yeah. I would say, I would say that in like anyone, I would say that anyone can develop the skills are required to be a leader. They're just gonna have to get at it from a different angle, depending on, on, on where they are. Right. Depending on if they are relationship oriented or, or balance oriented or stimulation oriented, autonomy oriented, they'll, they'll create different structures around it. But really it is, it is. Why do I say it might, it might seem like a cop out answer, like, oh yeah, you can, regardless of your orientation, you can be a leader. Right. But what I'm trying to say is that when you, when you, you are a certain relationship, there are other three relationships. I'm sorry, when you're a certain orientation, there are other three orientations that you are not, and you're gonna have to that 66% of the orientation set of, of possibilities or your orientation sample space, if you will, you're gonna have to understand how you can motivate these people to act and, and, and persuade them, influence them to come into your, your leadership role and, and acting a certain way.  
Speaker 0    01:13:39    So really it, it, I mean, if you had to pick one, maybe the, the balance oriented, but honestly, I would say, I would say any orientation. It just, it, it, it really depends on, on developing your own again, situational sensitivity, your even your storytelling, like, like I said, you know, crafting stories to convey power symbolically. So you don't have to actually incur costs on other people. You don't have to fire them. You just tell a story about someone who's did the same thing you're trying to do and got fired. So it it's just the, the more nuance and the more sensitive you are to that person and to their orientation, to their needs, even the better you can mediate the relationship.  
Speaker 5    01:14:44    Cool. That's very nice because like, in, in psychology, we see that like, when we are similar to the people that we are trying to lead, it makes it easier the leadership. Right. And then I was wondering, I was wondering if like a kind of personnel, like E N F G or something like that would have like, better, not better skills, but like would develop those skills better. You know what I mean?  
Speaker 0    01:15:21    Yeah. Yeah. I don't, I don't know much about the Briggs Meyer personality test. I believe it's called, I don't even, I've heard it's been disproved or something. I I'm sure it has value in, in like self knowledge, but I wouldn't know how to equate it or, or bring it into this context, but yeah, I'm happy to talk to you like one on one and talk about how this applies to you personally, I'm, I'm open to, to discussing this more, more personally and yeah. Funk. You were gonna say something,  
Speaker 4    01:16:00    Yeah. That there's this open invitation to everyone, to the NBC book club. And I find that the book club is very complementary to these trainings. So yeah. I invite people to go. And because there are things that, that sometimes are, are like easy to understand, but they're like very difficult to practice. And yeah, I, I feel that one of them is being the leaders of our own life. Like we always see leadership and leaders as externals, but, but the, that we can also see like the different personas that are within ourselves, which ones do we give them the spotlight and, and, and which is the leader that is moving us from within ourselves. And, and in that way, yeah. NBC gives us a, a very interesting point of view that if we see that we are the, the, the leaders of ourselves and that no one can make us feel anything, but ourselves, then we are also being responsible for, for, for our leadership and for our actions, because it's very easy to say, yeah, I did something because my leader told me, or I did something because that wa that that is the institutional rule.  
Speaker 4    01:17:43    But that way we avoid taking responsibility for our actions. And, and I think that through this lens of leadership and, and through the style of leadership and the, the structure of leadership that we are trying to, to foster, we, we are also trying to, to foster people that, that not do things just because, just because the, the rules say, say so, but because they, they, they agree and they have the intrinsic motivation to, to, to do something. So, so, yeah, I, I, and, and, and that's something that we have been talking about in the dollar space, like, like how to foster the, that people participate because of, of their willingness to participate and because of their intrinsic motivation and not because of external motivations. So, so, yeah, I, I, I love this topic and, and I think that there's a lot of, of to discuss, but yeah, this is a great presentation and also focused a lot in, in, in the skills that we are trying to build here in the graviton training.  
Speaker 0    01:18:58    Yeah, yeah, yeah. Again, I, I would like to keep improving this presentation. I'm glad a lot of people liked it. I like to keep improving these and creating some frameworks and, and even, you know, get with it later so we can make more diagrams that are like from DC and something else that that's actually very interesting. There is no leadership theory for th right. So this is extremely exciting for me to create some sort of framework on, okay, well, we have so much freedom in dos, and there are people who are gonna be contributing to different to 2, 3, 4. Dows probably just to, because it's, it's overwhelming to more than maybe three, if, if you, like, if you're like very experienced or, or very organized. Right. But yeah, definitely. I invite everyone to take a look at my notes. Even if you want DME, we can have a one on one, and I'd love to give some, some suggestions and think about how we, yeah, go ahead.  
Speaker 1    01:20:13    I just wanted to mention that in this meeting right now is Tiffany who just her thesis on integral leadership. So, so I would suggest maybe you connect to with her.  
Speaker 0    01:20:28    Oh yeah. Awesome. That's nice. Oh yeah. Hi. Yeah, definitely. Hi, nice  
Speaker 5    01:20:34    To meet too.  
Speaker 0    01:20:36    Yeah. Nice to meet you too. Definitely. I've sent you a friend request and yeah, we can, we can get together and see how from your thesis and from this presentation that I gave from the, from the, the resources that I, that I got it, we can work on something to, to bring into THEC. That would be cool.  
Speaker 5    01:20:55    That would be so exciting. And thank you, der for introducing or bringing in.  
Speaker 0    01:21:01    Yeah. Yeah. Thanks. Alright. Well, we're almost at the top of the hour and a half, if anyone else has any other questions, closing thoughts or anything haka, if not, then I think we can yeah. Call it, call it a day. Five minutes early.  
Speaker 4    01:21:24    Yeah, for sure. Thanks. Mannu it was really a great presentation and I am super happy about the way the graviton training is turning out next week. I will be talking about the conflict management structure that we are trying to, to, to implement in gravity. And I feel like all the previous presentations have been really like tying ti tithing every everything up. So that, yeah, what, what I explain in the next session, like gets really welcome understand because yeah, it's, it's, it's the, the, the, the, the way the process that we have been choosing to follow and, and, and, and yeah, it's it. I think it's very important to, to, to understand everything that we have talked, talked about to be able to, to, to practice that, that process. So thanks everyone. And, and yeah. Have a, a nice day and, and let's, let's continue seeing each other in these next days.  
Speaker 0    01:22:40    Cool. Right. Well, thanks everyone. Thanks Huka. Thank you, man. That was great.  
Speaker 5    01:22:44    You thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It does  
Speaker 8    01:22:52    Was amazing.  
Speaker 1    01:22:54    Thank you  
Speaker 0    01:22:56    Everyone. 
