Speaker 0    00:00:00    As I experienced some technical difficulties and I guess it has, it was my intention to have been more involved with the gravity graviton training since it started. And I've just been overwhelmed with some work. So yeah, I've been kind of scrambling to get this presentation and these slides together, even though I'm feeling a little uncertain in my ability to present nonviolent communication. Wow. I see. There's quite a few people here. Maybe I'm just gonna guess that quite a few of you are probably not already involved in the, in the book club or is that not the case?  
Speaker 2    00:01:36    Yeah. Some of them and some of us are in the book club, but we also extended the, in the invitation to join us this Thursday.  
Speaker 3    00:01:52    I'm not in it yet, but I'm interested in checking it out. Certainly. Thanks for the link.  
Speaker 0    00:01:57    Awesome. Well, yeah, so I can still just start from the beginning and try to, and, or even if people have any specific thing, questions, or kind of problem areas that they wanna relate, then I'd be happy to hear that. Also, just, just to begin, I will say that I'm not like any expert in the practice of nonviolent communication and, but I have, I've seen how becoming more fluent in these teachings will help me to meet my need to connect with the people in my life, more compassionately. So, so I have studied this material for pretty, pretty thoroughly over the past couple years, but that intellectual understanding has, I mean, it's helped me to keep in mind and other people's perspectives a little easier, but the it's not quite the same as getting practicing. So hopefully we can, if not in this session as a, as a group move from the understanding into practice sooner than later. Yeah. So non-violent communication is a language, a way of thinking communication skills means of influence and a practice. And there's quite a bit of philosophy surrounding nonviolent communication. It seems like a really simple idea, but it's actually pretty complicated how it all relates in with each other. But the, the basic idea is that it supports in connecting with ourselves and others in a way that promotes compassionate giving and that we never want to. We always want our giving to be done willingly, not out of guilt, shame, fear of punishment, or by trying to, by love submitting to people's expectations. So I don't know about you all, but for me that's pretty,  
Speaker 0    00:05:21    That's like pretty mind blowing already because that's like the basis of most of my actions in life have been, you know, motivated in these ways, whether through schooling or even just non formally through social settings, that it just kind of, if you think about it, or at least when I think about it, it seems like these, these things kind of run through our motivational systems. So if you don't know about Marshall Rosenberg, basically he got into the study of psychology to try to determine what happens to people so that they enjoy suffering and what happens people so that they enjoy relating compassionately and enjoying contributing to the wellbeing of others. And you know, how could he cuz he saw that some people just really love to make others suffer and then some people just really love connecting and contributing compassionately to life. So yeah, so that's what the whole that's where this all came from is that's the, the short version of where it all came from.  
Speaker 0    00:07:33    Yeah. He determined that violence is that violence is created by a way of thinking and a language and a use of power where some claim to be superior and know what's right for others. And that to maintain domination structures, people are educated with the static language that judges what they are that identifies them as a certain type of person based on their behavior, their appearance and their intelligence. And so that's yeah, maybe, maybe I can just take a pause from, from reading this and get some response from people listening, if they can connect with what Marshall finds to be the source of violence. Does that resonate with, with us here? Does it sound like familiar?  
Speaker 3    00:09:03    We're just putting this one into the gravity survey about what's most difficult to that. I find what's very difficult with STR in a community and with the kind of violence of speech or enjoying promoting someone else's suffering, I think specifically in crypto cultures, but also in the internet, it's a very meme friendly type of culture and dog piling can be such an easy part of it because it's kind of fun almost for people to identify, you know, a mistake or something silly. Imagine thinking this is a good track or, or something like that. And so quickly it can spiral into this. Oh, now you're making fun of someone, but you're just having fun as well. So I, I think that I understand what you mean by the martial Rosenberg or I can see the desire to add to other people suffering because I don't know, maybe perhaps it's already kind of been gamified or, or something like that. It's very easy to do.  
Speaker 0    00:10:10    Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. And I think what he's, you know, what he's suggesting is that that's not, you know, that's not an accident or a chance that it comes to be that way. Does anybody else have any, any thoughts or reflections on what Marshall sees as the source of violence?  
Speaker 5    00:10:41    I have something that came up when I looked at this, this slide in particular made me think about a conversation I had with my daughter this weekend. We've been talking about power dynamics, social ones, you know, status and how  
Speaker 4    00:11:01    I just wondered, there are some people who kind of have a need to be in control and those people can sometimes be quite difficult people. I, I was wondering what the suggestion would be in, in that type of situation.  
Speaker 6    00:11:19    Sorry, innovator. Thank you. Interrupted LS.  
Speaker 5    00:11:30    I thought I was UN or I thought I was just muted and nobody could hear me.  
Speaker 0    00:11:37    You, you can continue and we can, we can come back to that question momentarily.  
Speaker 6    00:11:44    I just want to clarify that sometimes that happens on this cord, that just certain people can't hear certain people. So, so maybe innovator, wasn't listening to you, but please go ahead.  
Speaker 5    00:11:59    Okay. Thank you. Yeah, just talking about power dynamics and how, because they are real, like people do things to maintain power dynamics. So in order for there to be popular, people there have to be unpopular people. So they have to like create these scenarios to validate their experiences. And that's just like bringing a lot up when I look at this and I think about language and how I use it and the comment before me with just the internet and the dog piling and yeah. How people feel good when they get validated. And I just see that happen so much on the internet, people picking on somebody or shaming them for making a mistake, as opposed to like supporting them. It just brings all those thoughts up and how we communicate and just how it's not good.  
Speaker 0    00:12:55    Yeah. And I think we can, we can get our meet needs for connection with our community met in this way that doesn't necessarily meet our needs for respecting other people, you know, in their full humanity. But yeah. Awesome. And just, I think there was a question about people who have, who want to control situations and I that's a lot of what nonviolent communication wants to provide as a way to, how do we, how do we connect with the, these messages and people who are communicating in these ways then and how can we, how can we connect in a way that maybe we can get all of our needs met? So why don't we, why don't we keep moving on the, on the slides and see what, cause we're still just getting into the, sort of the background of how non-violent communication came about.  
Speaker 2    00:14:25    I, I also want to say something that didn't and he said, when we were reading the, the book, I, the second chapter, he made a reference about Hannah rent and how sometimes we think that the like most violent things that have happened were made by men without hearts, or that are different than us. But he says that and, and also reflects on that, that evil is very ban the finality of evil and, and that really the evil things is just people who, who, who is not really taking the full responsibilities of their, of their actions. And sometimes they're just following yeah. Some, some institution or some rule to, to back up their, their, their action. But that through nonviolent communication, we should be, it promotes responsibility and that we have the free will to, to act in one way or another.  
Speaker 0    00:15:41    Yeah. And that's, that's part, that's what, you know, that's sort of what we're trying to get at here is that the idea that there's good guys and that there's bad guys and that the good guys have to, you know, they have to punish the bad guys to, to win. I guess we're coming up next with that in attri justice. The idea that when people are right wrong, good, bad, however, you're judged by the authorities, then you deserve to be rewarded or suffer pending. And then Walter wink noticed this pattern of the myth of redemptive that, of the, the good guy and the bad guy. And the, the, what I'm trying to get at is that the, when we have these binary static images, then it's very hard to look at ourselves as someone acting in ways aren't contributing to others' life. When there's only the good guys and the bad guys, we gotta be the good guys and somebody else has gotta be the bad guy. And it makes it really hard to, to explore, to explore our own problems where we're not serving life in our community.  
Speaker 0    00:17:22    And I would recommend checking out, Warren Walter winks REEP another that's something that Marshall brings up that was influence of, of his teaching. And it's worth his book. The powers that be is I would highly recommend there's a, okay, so nonviolent communication now with that was the really T TLDR of where non violent communication came from. And now we're gonna try to get through just sort of what the main ideas that rather than judging whether someone's right or wrong and whether to punish a reward with non violent communication, we're focusing on what's happening to human needs, our needs, their needs.  
Speaker 0    00:18:24    And when their actions, when actions aren't fulfilling needs, then we can change to actions that will fulfill needs. But when they, when the needs are met, we can celebrate. And, you know, just the idea that we can do all that without creating the enemy image of the bad guy and the good guy, and, you know, but that, that, that paradigm is also it's. It is meeting people's needs for connection at the expense of, of the needs of everybody else in the community. Doesn't meet all the need, but it's important to understand when we're thinking about how do we replace these destructive systems that they're, they're there for a reason because they are fulfilling their fulfilling need. So it's just important to keep that in mind.  
Speaker 0    00:19:43    Yeah. And he just says that the conflicts can be resolved when we get out of this almost like a meme or a complex, or we get triggered by something and instantly into this defensive posture. That's not really focused on the, the needs and the situation. So the process of nonviolent communication involves observations, clear observation, doesn't analyze or judge the behavior, but just action, peer action, language feeling, which is not how you think about what they did, but actually like I feel stressed or I feel sad or I feel, I feel mad or whatever, you know, and then to the needs, which we'll get to shortly, there's a whole list of needs that can browse through. And then if our needs aren't met and on a clear request, what can meet our need in that moment, if you listen to the recordings of Marshall Rosenberg, it's, he does, it's a lot of Jacko and giraffe language. And the Jacko language is when we're judging what people are. And we're, we're addicted to our strategies. We're making demands of people and, and in giraffe, because gaffs have the biggest heart and they have the long neck to reach for what the feeling and need is.  
Speaker 0    00:22:05    And so that I would expand upon that, but I haven't really gotten the observation statement effect without judgment or evaluation. And Marshall always loved to quote this ability to observe without evaluating the highest form of intelligence feelings indicate whether needs are met. So when we feel good, then our, we we're meeting some needs, our needs are being met. And then when we, when we don't feel good, then our, then there are some needs that are not met. So the process starts with either maybe the other person is, is having a trouble. So you're asking them like, you're guessing what they feel or you're sharing with them. What you're feeling in that as stimulated by your observation.  
Speaker 0    00:23:41    And we've divided feelings into a list of when needs are met and when they're not met. And a big part of non mind communication is just gaining a literacy and becoming more comfortable having on hand at any moment, a set of nine feelings that you could, you know, that you can better than good or be good and bad, you know, how you're feeling in a particular moment. So what he suggests is like going through these lists and picking out which words most you most relate with to that particular feeling and how you would use it in your natural life. Cause, you know, when you start practicing this, it might feel a little jilted at times when we're aiming, ultimately to, to use this process as part of our natural expression coming out, we all share the same needs. This is one of the fundamental principles.  
Speaker 0    00:25:34    It's one of the fundamental principles of nonviolent communication is we all have the same universal. The, and the same with the feelings is to come up with a list of needs in your, that you can use in your own words. And that could even be something we could, people are interested. We could add another time than our regular Tuesdays to do little workshops on some of this. So all this was leading to, after a clear expression of our experience, with an observation of what someone did and how we felt in relation to that and what were the, were the cause of those feelings. And then, and then offering a clear request on what that person can do in that moment. Cuz it's hard. A lot of times when we're expressing some frustration or difficulty someone, if we don't have a clear request on how they can meet that in that moment, if not ultimately for all times, but then it can be just a little too vague and not, you know, not actionable. That's where the clear request comes in, important as important.  
Speaker 2    00:27:50    Also there's a difference between requests and demand. When we make a demand, that's a type of communication that blocks compassion because we are objective I the other. And when, when we ask for a request or we make a suggestion, we recognize the free wheel of the other, but we, we encourage the other to be motivated through our needs and feelings.  
Speaker 0    00:28:27    Absolutely it's and the more like, as I've gotten, like to explore number communication, more deeply, it kind of helps to see certain ways, subtle aspects of relationships where it didn't, it didn't come out as a demand. But Marshall says, you know, it's a demand based on what happens if they don't do what you requested. So, and we can get into destructive games with, in our relationships without necessarily being aware because of this, this training that we've gotten around, the, the type violent communication trying to transcend, oh, we're actually doing pretty good on this. I mean, there's only like 50 slides to get left. Does anybody have any thoughts or questions? I know that was like a really sort of hurried run through of that. But hopefully this is just helping us all to gain a little more familiar concept. Anybody thoughts, questions.  
Speaker 8    00:31:03    One thing I, one thing that's come up for me is, cause as I've explored this model of nonviolent communication is just how difficult it is for me to like message my feelings. Sometimes when I like, like just, just staying in the feeling words and not even like analyzing, it's really easy for me to analyze myself or to like say that I feel, you know, I feel, I feel like you're not listening to me or something. And like that's like a sort of a weird statement of fact or a measurable thing that's like has isn't necessarily related to my feelings, I guess. I don't know. I was wondering maybe if you could,  
Speaker 0    00:31:42    Not that. Yeah, for sure. As in nonviolent communication, as Marshall has shared with us, is that feelings, if any time you say, I feel that I feel you feelings are all, should we have to relate it to our emotion within this framework or else it's not clear. Like I feel that you don't care. Isn't the same as saying I feel hurt when you respond in that way. You know, I hope that's clarifying a little what, what we're getting at here. I don't think I really took notes on that too deeply.  
Speaker 9    00:32:55    If you say that, I feel that you're doing something that you're, you're stating a judgment, you're not actually stating a feeling. These are called foe feelings. Right.  
Speaker 9    00:33:05    Right. And, and what Phil feelings do is that provide you with a way of avoiding responsibility for your own feelings. And this is so pervasive and that's why everyone feels like they're, they're essentially projecting, there are judgments upon someone else without taking responsibility for them. So if you say, you know, I feel disrespected, that's a judgment of what you think the other person is actually doing when in fact you're not really sure. You're just projecting your idea about it. So it's super important to not, there's a lot of words that you end with ed, which are, you know, I feel disrespected as one of them, right. So if you say, well, I feel sad or I feel angry or feel whatever, when you do some specific thing, that's a far better way of, of making the person clear about what it is that you're feeling. And when, as opposed to, you know, just putting a, a, a, an imagination of what they're, they're judging you for. And so it's also important to do that because when you say it like that, it makes you feel responsible for your own feelings. And we've been taught that that's not necessarily a good thing. And so we kind of repeat that unhealthy pattern and that violent pattern.  
Speaker 3    00:34:34    Would you say there's a difference between feelings and thoughts then? Well, I think that you're not listening to me rather than I feel like you're not listening to me. I feel heard or ignored when you're not listening, but it's a thought of mine that you are disrespecting me. Something like that.  
Speaker 0    00:34:51    It's an analysis yes. Or judgment, or  
Speaker 3    00:34:55    There you go.  
Speaker 0    00:34:57    Yeah. Yeah, for sure. And thanks for jumping in on that. Appreciate it.  
Speaker 2    00:35:05    So I think that he, he promotes the understanding that we are the owners of our own feelings. So, so yeah, it's, it's like we shouldn't like see on others, the feelings that we're feeling, but rather see the feelings within ourselves. And, and also like the feeling is like the signal, but what comes after the feeling is to identify the need that is behind the feeling. So sometimes you, you, you, you may say like, continuing with this example, like, I feel disrespected because you are not hearing me, maybe the need is security or, or attention. And maybe you, you can say like, I, I, if you would like to make a request, you would,  
Speaker 0    00:36:13    You got cut off there, Wonka we're in, in this at three. I imagine there's people that probably have to go.  
Speaker 1    00:36:38    Yeah.  
Speaker 2    00:36:39    So the internet jumped.  
Speaker 0    00:36:41    Oh, okay. You can continue with your thought. I feel like,  
Speaker 2    00:36:46    Yeah, that, that we should be responsible for our feelings and not like giving that responsibility to what others do. And that continuing with that same example of, of, I feel disrespected, I am feeling disrespected, maybe what is the need behind, behind that, that feeling and that judgment, and if it's attention or security, so, so that you can like really understand what is the root of, of the communication that you want to have and not like maybe yeah. Like adding layers of, of complexity. I think that non-violent communication also tries to, to, to express things like the, the, the most simple way possible, so that the message is, is, is delivered. And, and yes, when, when we give or, or, or like give the responsibility of our feelings to the other, we, we, we cannot express our, what, what is really inside the bus.  
Speaker 0    00:38:04    Thank you. Thank you for that.  
Speaker 0    00:38:13    I think we're, we're coming to, we're kind of coming towards the end of the hour. And I just want to, just to highlight, and that the, a big part of what that this, this, this training taught, not just to, not only to help us increase the harmony in our relationships, but to protect society and humanity from, from dangerous forces that, that aren't people in organizations seeking to meet their needs at the expense of the, the needs of others. And so it's, it's really, I don't know why for some reason, when I, I come across nonviolent communication, I feel like that part gets left out, but that, and I also wanted to show how the same process is used, how he teaches it, its use in gratitude because maybe that'll help to see how the same pattern is used, where when, when we're sharing gratitude, that Marshall says it's, we can, the person who's receiving the gratitude can get a lot more out of it.  
Speaker 0    00:40:11    If rather than saying you're incredible, which is that same kind of judgment language judging what people are, because if it's a good judgment, it's still that same thing. So instead we're suggested to make a clear statement, what actions, what specifically about what the person did, what actions they took that enriched our life, what needs of ours were fulfilled with that action and then how were feeling as a result of, so it's the same thing when we have a problem or if somebody, and if you scroll back through the slides to the empathy section, it's the same thing that like we're focusing on, you know, what, what they're feeling now in that moment, what need is being disrupted? So it's this observations, feelings needs. That's the, that's the rubric with which nonviolent communication uses to connect in all of our different types of interactions that we have in our relations. And yeah, if anybody else wants to add something to that, anything that maybe I left out that they feel is really important to cover in a session about non violent communication, anything like  
Speaker 2    00:42:19    I would like to say that first is the understanding of these concepts, but then comes the practice. And the practice is always the most difficult part, but by being conscious of, of the types of communication and the communication mistakes that we are normally doing, we can start making small changes in our life. And I feel, I wasn't really clear with when, when I was talking before. So what I wanted to say is that we are the owners of our own feelings and we should be responsible for what we feel and trying to, to give that, that responsibility to others. The others are not the owners of our feeling, weird donors of our feelings. And, and, and we should be responsible by, by also how, how we think and, and how we feel it it's like being, being the master of your mind and the master of your body.  
Speaker 2    00:43:24    Sometimes we, we live too much in, in, in our minds and our minds can behave like a crazy horse and, and through nonviolent communication, we can tame that crazy horse and, and being able to ride it. And that's the same, that's the same. What, when we are trying to communicate with others, like non-violent communication is, is a framework that helps to, to, to go over the prisoners' dilemma and not like everyone taking a decision without, without taking into account the other, but to try to, to, to take the best decision possible, taking into account the needs of both parts.  
Speaker 9    00:44:14    Well, and the other part about this, that's, that's beautiful about using language that accepts responsibility is there's a, there's a switch in how you feel internally after some practice in time using this in terms of how much agency and autonomy you feel yourself. It may seem a little bit awkward at first because we're growing up with, with words and phrases and methods of communicating that sort of remove our ability to feel those things, but over time it can really gang up on you. And it's a very beautiful side effect.  
Speaker 0    00:45:03    Does anybody have any questions, something that they just are really dying or observations on the, of anything that came up while the, during the presentation?  
Speaker 3    00:45:23    I don't have any questions, but good job, man. It smashed it. I, would've no idea where I would start a presentation like this. Do you have a favorite Marshall Rosenberg lecture or anything that you'd wanna share with us?  
Speaker 0    00:45:38    We're all back at the very beginning of the, of the slides on the second slide, it shows you that this, this presentation came from a playlist that I found on YouTube and a, also a di GitHub repository with the big bunch of links of all kinds of videos, more information. And even there's a course, that sounds true cells that is based upon the same workshop, nine day communication workshop training. And also, yeah, so there's that, and I did leave some other links, but that w right there on that TDR page of the presentation, you can definitely find more than more information that you'll know what to do with, I know what to do  
Speaker 9    00:47:10    With my favorite workshop in the gravity channel.  
Speaker 0    00:47:15    Oh, did you? Yeah. I added your,  
Speaker 9    00:47:17    Yeah.  
Speaker 0    00:47:19    I'll, I'll put that on there, on that page also then.  
Speaker 2    00:47:25    Yeah. But all, all these are, are everyday practices. It's, it's not like, okay, I get NBC and I have it in my mind, but I don't express empathy. It's something that we have to like continue practicing every day and sooner or later we, we, we will get the best out of it. And yeah, now that we are getting to the end of this call, I would like to thank Diam for this presentation. It was amazing. And I also thank all of you for coming, because I see a lot of consistency in the, in the participants. And that is amazing. I, I foresee like a, a lot of graviton and a lot of interesting discussions that we can have, and a lot of collaboration that we can have in this space. And yeah, I'm very thankful for that. Also next session, we will have Lauralie, who is also someone who is working in, in human resources for a lot of time in the Dallas space. And she's currently now working in Bitcoin. So she will be telling us about how can we have conflict management within organizations. And yeah, I really hope that you're enjoying the training and that the topics are being aligned session after session. And yeah, I would like to also to open mic, if, if someone has some question or request for this training,  
Speaker 5    00:49:11    I got one thing I just wanted to say, I'll stick around at the end of the call a little bit. If anybody hasn't received Bo badges for some reason, or is having trouble with them, I can help people with that.  
Speaker 2    00:49:26    Yeah. Right. Right. Now we have delivered three and this, we will deliver the fourth one. So someone can answer really quick. What did you learn today? Or what was your favorite part of today's talk by D  
Speaker 10    00:49:55    I appreciate slides available. Sorry. I'm just saying, I appreciate having slides available. Look at those. I'm guessing a lot. There's so much range.  
Speaker 0    00:50:16    Thank you. And also, I wanna invite anyone who's interested in helping to improve the slides. That's gonna be a work in progress. I'd like it to be a little bit better organized than it is, but please do reach out. And also, oh, go ahead.  
Speaker 10    00:50:43    I'm sorry. I was just gonna say that I, I appreciate the way that you did these slides and the presentation. It was very well say everything that you said. I just wanna say that you did a good job and thank you for sharing of that us.  
Speaker 0    00:51:05    Thank you. And thanks for the appreciation. I it's a little bit of a, I didn't have as much time to work on it as I wanted to. So I'm glad that it was able to come together the way that it did  
Speaker 2    00:51:34    So well. Thanks everyone. And yeah, this was the first session of the ground and training. 
