Speaker 0    00:00:00    We can make a role play and also talk about the pop-ups. Those are the two things that we're going to do today, and let's wait for people to jump. Hey. Hello everyone. Okay. So yeah, I am going to start this call. Thanks everyone for joining and yeah. Thanks everyone. For, for being in the graviton training, this is our 10th session. So that means we will end this training today. Yeah, we, I was just saying that today is, is the last session of the training and yeah, I am super happy about how it has been going. I hope that you have enjoyed this training and that this is not the last thing, but actually this is a starting point. If you want to collaborate more into gravity or if you want to actually mediate conflict, or if you just want to apply the, the skills that, that you learned here in your everyday life. Yeah. That's, that's just the, the starting point.  
Speaker 0    00:02:30    But for the agenda for today, I have two things that I want to do. And one is to talk about the pops, because I know that there has been a little bit of, of, of problems with the claiming of the pops. And I would really want to know, like, what is the, the actual state where we are with them. And also in the case that there's a major, like leak of pops that the actual participants don't have them. We always have the recording of the calls. So that won't be a problem to actually make the, the, the grab list and to see the real people that participated in this training. So, well, I, I, I wanna do two things today. Yeah. The first thing is to, to talk about the pops and there is a spreadsheet that I am going to share that has the links of the pops for each session. Some of them until last week were delivered mostly by Allo issues, rider and Ste. But so you have them in, in your, in your DMS, those, those links that should match the ones that are in this spreadsheet that I will be sharing in the, in the gravity text channel.  
Speaker 0    00:04:14    So my, my idea is that everyone jump into this spreadsheet and, and please double check that you have obtained your pops. Like, yeah, here you can see session one, session, two session three, session four, session five. So, yeah, please check that you got your pops and some of them have already been claimed by, by bots. So if, if you click the link for your pop and it says that it has been already minted, please DM me because I will make a list of people who is missing. Yeah. The pops to see, how can we fix that  
Speaker 3    00:05:10    Question? Should we write like next to like, there's the, the, the, the, like sort of the tick, if someone minted it or like basically tickets, it will send, but maybe the people could that missed now their co-op could write next to their name, just missing and, or, or like, I, I don't mind what you write. You can also write a nice message or a story, or put a star there, but just sort of mark your name with the pull-ups that are missing next to your name. That that would be super, super helpful, because I think  
Speaker 4    00:05:44    In case it's helpful, I'm pretty sure that every person from the last distribution wasn't able to use their link. And also if someone already minted co-op, if they, if we give them another link, it won't like matter because they'll already have it.  
Speaker 0    00:06:07    Yeah. So the, the Popop for the session nine, they were all claimed by bots. So like, I think that session nine is the one that will have the most missing links and like people don't being able to claim, but yeah, please. Okay.  
Speaker 0    00:06:29    And eight. So, yeah, please. If, if, if you have any problems, like, right, like this, like missing in, in the session, and we will try to fix that mostly this problem happened between session eight and session nine, and the pop for session session 10. I will just past it here in this call so that you can make the life claim and we can get ahead of the bots. So I, I, in, in, in session 10, I will, I will be adding the, the, the links just now. And yeah, the idea is that you can please write your, your name next to the, to the link that you used for, for claiming. So, yeah, right now you can make the claim of your pops here in session of 10, but we also, sorry. Yes.  
Speaker 5    00:07:39    Yeah. I wanted to say something, some folks have noticed that if you don't client claim, your co-ops, you won't get 'em. They have a shelf life. So there's a lot of people who might have like some that they have fed sitting in their email, but they haven't claimed them yet. They won't be able to claim the older ones.  
Speaker 0    00:07:58    I think, yeah. A question they have, they have a time of a bit of availability, but I think that the, that the time they had was until the 26th of November. So I think that we are still on the meeting period. Yeah.  
Speaker 5    00:08:14    I've been trying to help someone and they had a hard time doing it, thing that they were no longer able to move them. Okay.  
Speaker 0    00:08:23    Then right. In the, in the, in the spreadsheet, maybe the, the links that ma that you got the link, but the link is expired. Yeah. The thing is that it's important for us to know actually yeah. Who is missing to, to, to be in order with that. So  
Speaker 6    00:08:45    One,  
Speaker 0    00:08:46    Yeah.  
Speaker 5    00:08:47    Hello was just  
Speaker 6    00:08:48    Citing me. They were helping me out this morning.  
Speaker 5    00:08:51    I'm curious if I would  
Speaker 7    00:08:52    Network, do I need to be connected to, to, to do this a main net or XDI  
Speaker 0    00:08:57    Sorry. There were two people talking at the same time and I, and I couldn't understand. I, I heard Doga and the voice of a woman, but I didn't recognize it.  
Speaker 6    00:09:11    Oh, I, this is Morgan. Identify as some binary. And so I'm curious if I would've gotten the same message from a bot, having claimed my PO app, versus it maybe having already expired. Like, would it be the same sort of alert?  
Speaker 0    00:09:30    No, no. You know, you can, you can, like, this is my, my pop thing, and I already claimed the 10 of them. But like, if you click for an example in this, you can see the collection. And when, when you open the collection, you, you, you can see all the, the, the, the claims that, that were done on this part. So actually, if the link expired, it will tell you that it expired. But if the link was claimed, it will tell you, like, this pop has already been claimed. So it's a different, a different message. Yeah.  
Speaker 6    00:10:12    Then yeah. Mine were some of the ones that alerted that there's expired. Okay.  
Speaker 7    00:10:16    We'll talk. The other thing that I was wondering about as far as trying to account for mine is I think I've claimed some on the XDI some on, on main net by accident, because yeah. I think that  
Speaker 0    00:10:29    Pretty them in, in XDI and in may. Oh, does they charge you? But all of these, I think they, they, they were minted in, in XDI.  
Speaker 7    00:10:40    Okay.  
Speaker 0    00:10:41    Yeah. This, this one's in particular. So yeah, if, if the link expired, please write next to the link expired. If the link, if, if the, the link was already claimed, like in session nine, please write missing. Okay. And moving to the next topic, the get going, guys, asking us to have a mediators phone book. It's not necessary to give your number, your, your cell number or, or, or, but like just putting your, your, your username, your discard handle, if you want to be in a, in a phone book of mediators in for, for, Dows the idea of, of having this is that I understand that this training is, is very general and that not all of you want to actually mediate in conflict. Some of you just want to learn about conflict management to apply it in your everyday life. So I don't, so I, I like maybe you can be a graviton, but you just want to have it for yourself.  
Speaker 0    00:12:10    And you think that maybe mediating in conflicts would add like more work to you and you feel that your load is enough. So I don't want to have like, all gravitons being mediators. So, so yeah, the people that, that would like to participate in this mediator list, you can say your name or write it directly in the spreadsheet, because we will share this with the Bitcoin guys. And the idea also is that we have a lot of people from different communities here. And one of the things that would be really good to do in this next days is to make clusters and to say like, okay, we are going to be the gravitons on, I don't know, source grid and okay.  
Speaker 0    00:13:06    X, Y, and, and C are going to be the gravitons that will, that are participating in Bitcoin or, or, yeah, these two or three people are going to be participating in Gith and these two or three people are actively participating in proof of humanity. So that way we can have like clusters from gravitons in different communities. And yeah, that's something that will be really cool to do after, in, in these next sessions. Also, I want to say that even though that the training is, is F is finalized today, we will skip, we will still keep meeting in the same hour on Tuesdays, but to coordinate on the working group. So it will be like a, a, a weekly working group call, mostly about coordination. And we will still continue the NBC book club until we finish with the book. And this week we will be going over chapter number nine of the non-violent communication book club.  
Speaker 0    00:14:22    So every everyone is invited. I think that the book has 14 chapters. So after the, the, we end that book club, we, we will decide as a group, if, if we will decide as a group, if we want to continue meeting on Tuesdays, or if we want to move to Thursdays or other schedule. So yeah, on that, on that issue, we will, if you want to continue collaborating with us, you know, that we will be here, if you feel that the training was enough for what you wanted and that it gave you something that's nice too. So,  
Speaker 7    00:15:05    Yeah, I just wanted to just say that we're planning on trying to create as a things to continue broadening skills, for example, like practice groups, where instead of just talking about the book and NBC, we actually practice and come up with things out of the, so there are other things that we're planning as we transition into the gravity do side of the thing, too. So just please leave your suggestions. And also, don't forget, we have a get Bitcoin grant going up, so please pay attention to that. Thanks.  
Speaker 0    00:15:43    Yeah. Yeah. This is our grant. It's not yet active. It will become active in round number 12, but if you want to support us, you are invited and we have this nurses safe that currently has zero tokens in it. But, and currently I am the only participant in the multisig, but the idea is that we, we make a committee that will actually distribute and manage the funds that we will receive as a, as a Dow based also on the, on the funding proposal that we are do that we want to do for the, for the TC.  
Speaker 0    00:16:38    The idea is that we can have rewards for people that media in conflicts, but we can also have rewards for people that make trust building activities, and that we can also make for, for different types of contribution. So, yeah, this is another creative part that is going to start right after this graviton trading that we will need to decide who are going to be the cost studios of this, of this multisig. And yeah, we will try to receive funds both from Bitcoin, both from making, offering our services to other Dows and also with the funding proposal from the TC, that will be like our Kickstarter starter and yeah, on that side. Is there any question, any comment for the, for the multisig? The only thing that, that I am want to require that is that the participants have to have the title of graviton, meaning that they finished either the first training or the, the second one and how  
Speaker 7    00:18:10    Time I was on it.  
Speaker 0    00:18:14    Yeah. I, I like, I really wanted to be on it too, but we are gonna have a participatory process. And the idea is that I am going to make a forum post, like the one that says of the initial buy and the idea is that we can have like nominate five people and then we vote on these nominations so that it's not like, even though that Doga as, and I are like coordinators of, of gravity, like, I, I don't want it to be like, imposed. Like these are the people that have to be there and I want to be more of a participatory process. So like having a nomination and then we both on them and for five people,  
Speaker 8    00:19:18    Can I say one thing why that maybe it's interesting, like, like probably instead of using like token holders to vote on the gravity on gravity mode, I don't know. Probably you are interested in doing like one gravity on one boat. Just, yeah. Just saying that maybe it's interesting. Maybe not, but just throwing it up.  
Speaker 0    00:19:39    Well, we, we, that, that can also be done. Yeah. This, this, this is not like rock solid. I am going to make a post and have advice process. Like what would be the best way to manage this? MOIC it can be good the way that, that septi says it, like one graviton, one boat, or it can be also like a committee of gravitons that idea that septi gave. I really, really liked it. So yeah, it's something that we will be, have to be figuring out in the, in the next days.  
Speaker 8    00:20:17    I, I was saying it more to both in the committee, like, like the thing is like, you know, like, how are you going to make this boat? Like, if you use TC tokens, then there might be a lot of gravity in here who, I mean, this gravity thing is just getting started. And I think it's good. Like, yeah, there's just people like they don't have TC tokens and yeah.  
Speaker 0    00:20:37    Oh, all right. Oh, well then we can use another, another boating mechanism. Not necessarily Dow boating, we can use like, yeah, what's it called doodle one of these boating tools that, that allow us to have like one, one person, one boat.  
Speaker 3    00:21:07    We could also do that. For example, with a bot on discord, there's like very highest voting bots on discord. So it's also like a super centralized process in terms of just where it's, where it's happening instead of going on another, like it's super visible, you could pivot it to the discord channel and use it. So there there's many ways of doing that. And you could actually also verify for example, that if someone holds a PO up, they can actually vote, which is also a pretty neat feature. If we would go for that, I'm happy to support on setting that up.  
Speaker 0    00:21:45    Okay. That that's amazing. Yes. That that's the type of coordination that we need. And actually, like, I, I created the multisig, but if the results of the boat end up saying that I am not in the, in the, in the committee, if we end up having a committee, I will just like, yeah, pass the permissions. And I will re retire myself from, from, from the multisig. So it's not like I have to be there, or it's more that we want it to be like a participatory process. And the, the brainstorming that we have done here is, is really great. So I think that, that we will be good in, in moving into that, that point, but getting to the mid of this session, I don't want to finish the, the graviton training without having a role play. I love role plays, and I think role plays are good for practicing conflict management. So we will be doing this role play. I will share this, this link it's already posted in the, in the gravity text channel, but I, I will repost it again.  
Speaker 0    00:23:11    And this is a role play based in three roles. One is the department chair. One is the PHY physician researcher, and one is the trusted other administrator or mediator. So I have a, I had another case, but it was much longer. And I really liked this case because it's very, very simple. So what we're gonna do is that we are going to divide in groups of three, and yeah, we are going to have people that is going to be the department chair, people that is going to be the, the, the physician and people that is going to be the mediator. And we will split into, into breakout rooms and, and have this activity.  
Speaker 0    00:24:08    It's not necessary that we have groups of three. We can make groups of six, like two people being the department chair, and two people being the physician researcher and two people being the, the, the mediator. So, yeah, I am going to explain the case. It's, it's really, really easy, but it can go a lot of different directions. And I, I also like this case because there are other cases that have more of an adversarial position, but this is a case that that has no adversarial positions. And it's mostly like, how can you solve this situation? And it's a lot of the conflicts that we have in, in gravity. Not all of them are like with adversarial positions. Some of them are just like coordination things and like, how, how can we communicate better? So I liked this case and it, it is like there's a superstar professor who continues to take on significant new commitments despite being overextended, a department chair who will not wanting to diminish his academic superstar value to the university is concerned about all another new grant he or she wants to take on as principal investigator and an administrator who is trusted colleague of the department chair and provides a willing ear for how to approach this conflict.  
Speaker 0    00:25:44    So, yeah, it's, it's really easy one. And, and this is something we also see in the space a lot. Like we don't know how to measure our loads. And we sometimes tend, tend to overload when we try to give ourselves some issues to do with overload with them. And we don't know how much is the right amount. And this case is about this. It's about someone who maybe wants to do a lot, but as, as, as peers, sometimes we, we, we think that it, it, it's better when, when the loads are distributed and yeah, there, there, there are, the description of the role is, is here below. So depending on, on the role that, that you choose, you have to read this information and to yeah. Make the theater, like get into that skin and, and play that role. So yeah, I will try to split the group and then we will start the, the exercise. The idea is that in the, in the split groups, we can first study the role. And, and then we make the, the other, the other breakout rooms where we will do the activity. So initially we just need three groups.  
Speaker 0    00:27:28    I, I will have like people that, that, that I am really close to, like being the leaders of, of, of one group. So levy, could you be the leader of, of the group from that will play the department chair,  
Speaker 9    00:27:56    The group that will play the department chair.  
Speaker 0    00:27:59    Yeah,  
Speaker 9    00:28:02    Sure. Yes.  
Speaker 0    00:28:04    Okay. So, yeah, please jump to, I don't know, parameters or another voice channel and people who want to play the department chair can jump with levy to study the, the role.  
Speaker 9    00:28:26    And I can open that document from the gravity chat, right?  
Speaker 0    00:28:30    Yeah. Yeah. It's the, the, the role, the, the character description it's really,  
Speaker 9    00:28:37    Really. Okay. Great.  
Speaker 0    00:28:38    Yeah.  
Speaker 9    00:28:39    Thank you.  
Speaker 0    00:28:41    Thank you. And  
Speaker 6    00:28:46    So one  
Speaker 0    00:28:48    Yes.  
Speaker 6    00:28:49    Question are, we're splitting into three different groups to study the role, and then we'll come back and do like triads where we'll,  
Speaker 9    00:28:59    What it,  
Speaker 8    00:29:01    Hey, Hey,  
Speaker 9    00:29:02    What a crew? Hello. We got a lot of department chairs, all stars.  
Speaker 8    00:29:11    Can you draw the link somewhere? Li I didn't get it where to get it.  
Speaker 9    00:29:18    Yeah. Thank God. It's you guys here? Where should I drop? Oh, dropping gravity again. It's in gravity. Gravity too. Okay. It's in gravity.  
Speaker 8    00:29:29    Okay.  
Speaker 9    00:29:30    Yeah.  
Speaker 8    00:29:32    I mean, no, I don't know if that's the moment, but I'm also doing this boat. And then also thinking like, grief is not here. He's on vacation. I don't know. Like, he's not like communicating on Twitter for hatchers to vote.  
Speaker 4    00:29:54    Is this the superstars? Did I get that right?  
Speaker 9    00:29:59    This, this the department chair. So we can read over this together. Have you all read this already?  
Speaker 10    00:30:10    I can read it out loud if you want.  
Speaker 9    00:30:12    Perfect. Yeah.  
Speaker 10    00:30:13    All right. So the character is the department chair. And so you are a chair of the neurology department at a large academic medical center. You've spent the last few years trying to keep your superstar, physician researcher happy as she is always letting you know about offers. She receives from other prestigious universities, you know, that she supports many valuable programs in your department. However, you are increasingly and comfortably aware of the fact that she pay plays fast and loose with their responsibilities. Typically she has students postdocs and others who work for her labs covering many of her academic duties. The sponsored project's office has brought to the attention of the provost, the dubious effort reports she has submitted. And the provost has asked you to look into the matter because they fear she would not pass muster with federal auditors. An effort report indicates total university compensated effort, which may include teaching research, public service, administrative, and other university related activities. You are especially concerned now that she has emailed you, that she will stop by to have you sign off on her proposal to be principal investigator on the new NIH, institutional research training grant, which would admit four trainings per year requiring her supervision and guidance.  
Speaker 10    00:31:30    So, yeah, I think that our superstar researcher is overt, extending herself. She's playing fast and loose, and her effort report might indicate that she's not performing well. That's what I kind of got out of that.  
Speaker 11    00:32:01    I think I would also add that it's a risk for our institution to, to have this, what is the word I'm looking for potential liability in terms of the responsibilities for how we do our research and the results that we have. So I think that the biggest concern is that there's a liability for our institution.  
Speaker 10    00:32:28    Yeah. And since the provost of the said that the effort reports she did submit were kind of dubious. So basically she just, you know, she's kind of exaggerating on the accuracy of, of that effort report. So I think  
Speaker 9    00:32:53    Ahead, no, and also having other students doing most of her work is a big concern for liability too.  
Speaker 10    00:33:08    Yeah. So I think we have like what, three things that are really important. It's a, it's a risk to the institution. She's liability for other, she's having a lot of people do the work for her, and she's kind of exaggerating and lying on her effort report. So those are three major concerns that we have with this character.  
Speaker 9    00:33:42    So we are trying to find a solution for how to deal with the situation.  
Speaker 10    00:33:53    I don't know. I think maybe we, we kind of like, we know what we're trying to address. Maybe not finding a solution, but like knowing what to articulate our problem or our concern with, but we want to keep her around cuz she's super talented. So I guess how would we go about doing that  
Speaker 4    00:34:18    I'm so are we gonna have like a representative from our group role play with someone from another group or like, do y'all understand what the next step is? Just curious. I, cause I don't,  
Speaker 10    00:34:30    I was also wondering about that. I think we'll know when we get back in there, I think kind of just understanding our character and knowing what we're trying to accomplish and what we're trying to convey to the researcher.  
Speaker 4    00:34:46    Yeah. Probably like character role play.  
Speaker 10    00:34:49    Yeah. I'm sure that there's a go ahead.  
Speaker 9    00:34:54    So actually all of this is talking about her boss kind of right. Not her it's confusing cuz the, he is her, like, it doesn't define one person here, but I think this chair of neurology department, let's say she's a, she and, and she has spent the, the last few years doing all of the super hard work for this other superstar researcher to be happy. And let's say, this is a, he and he has been like promising you offers and universities and supporting valuable programs, but he has been like lose with his responsibilities. Right. Do we have an understanding of that? Cuz before I was confused. So there's I think here,  
Speaker 10    00:36:02    Yeah. Us and the, the, the superstar researcher.  
Speaker 9    00:36:07    Right. Okay. Yeah.  
Speaker 10    00:36:11    And so yeah, I think that the superstar researcher is the one who's kind of using her students to get her work done using her performance is leverage to get another job, but also putting everything at risk and lying on her effort report. And we're the chair of the neurology department. And we've been tasked by our boss to do something about it.  
Speaker 9    00:36:36    Hmm.  
Speaker 10    00:36:43    Yeah. I don't know if there's another researcher in there. I haven't seen one yet. They do be kinda confusing with the, his or her.  
Speaker 9    00:36:51    No, you're right. It's just the chair and the, and the researcher. Maybe I'll go ask one or did anyone understand if we need to take next steps now or if we're going back to a room,  
Speaker 3    00:37:30    I think we go back to the room and then basically discuss like, like one or two showcases and then go into small, smaller groups.  
Speaker 9    00:37:39    Oh, okay.  
Speaker 10    00:37:40    Thank you. Do we know what our characters course of action would be though?  
Speaker 0    00:37:46    How are you guys? Do you like the RO the, the role play?  
Speaker 9    00:37:50    Oh, good thing. You arrived. We were a little bit confused.  
Speaker 0    00:37:54    Yeah.  
Speaker 9    00:37:57    So  
Speaker 0    00:37:59    You are gonna play the department chair there's the, there is the two other roles. One is the superstar researcher and the other one is the, is, is the mediator. So basically you are concerned that the superstar researcher is overloading himself with work. And you think that if he or she assumes more responsibility, then the quality of, of, of their work may, may be affected. And also because there, there are outed of, of, of, of, of the way that the workload is, is, is distributed and for the researchers and you are concerned that if this principal researcher at has another, another grant, maybe that that will be something that can be reported in and outed. So your idea is what, what your position is, is that you will try to look for solutions with the mediator and with the researcher to, to, to see like, yeah. If, if, if he or she would agree to be the secondary researcher of the grant, and also how can you express that concern that you have of the quality of the job being affected by the amount of load that, that, that he or she's is, is, is carrying.  
Speaker 9    00:39:50    Thank you. So this, so this part now we were just trying to understand all the characters, is that right?  
Speaker 0    00:39:59    Yeah. We are understanding you, you are the department chair chewy and the others are the administrator and Dingo and Britain are the superstar researchers. So what we are gonna do now is that we are going to split into the groups where we will have the mediation. So what we're gonna do is that we are going to have, I am going to first tell the people that, that are the superstar researchers to, to, to jump into different voice channels. So  
Speaker 4    00:41:40    What,  
Speaker 10    00:41:43    So they're gonna break into a bunch of different rooms. So Dingo ley, Brittany, and Ms. McGee, they're going to be the role of the superstar researcher. And then the next group is gonna break out into different rooms and then we're gonna break out into different rooms. So one of the four,  
Speaker 4    00:42:04    Right? The one thing that makes sense to put us all in rooms together with the other roles is what I'm gathering.  
Speaker 10    00:42:10    So we'll have four mediation attempts.  
Speaker 4    00:42:15    Thanks, Nate.  
Speaker 10    00:42:17    Yeah.  
Speaker 9    00:42:29    So I think we should understand a little bit about all the roles, right?  
Speaker 10    00:42:36    I think it's good. Not knowing,  
Speaker 9    00:42:38    Not knowing.  
Speaker 10    00:42:39    Yeah. Cuz you just kind of blind and see like, you know, your incentives and like what your motivations are and then we'll let the mediators decide how to go through it and see what we learn.  
Speaker 4    00:42:52    Oh that's is somebody willing to pair with me so I can watch?  
Speaker 10    00:42:58    Yeah. I mean there's a lot of us, so I think that we're gonna be the dominant in each one. So there'll be a couple each  
Speaker 4    00:43:04    Room. I explicit that I'm not gonna role play. And so if somebody wants to pair with me, who's planning on role playing.  
Speaker 10    00:43:14    Well, four of us will have to, so I'll be one of them.  
Speaker 4    00:43:19    I'm not getting any clear signs of anybody who wants to pair with me.  
Speaker 10    00:43:24    I'll be one.  
Speaker 0    00:43:25    Hey everyone. Okay. So the groups are in communities here. How many people do we have here? Those stressing. Okay. We're gonna split in couples. And each couple is going to jump into either communities, transparency, comments, and soft code.  
Speaker 10    00:43:57    All right.  
Speaker 0    00:43:58    Yeah.  
Speaker 10    00:44:00    Break.  
Speaker 0    00:44:03    You can move there  
Speaker 12    00:44:10    Researcher. So then we need somebody. Who's gonna be the department chair.  
Speaker 6    00:44:16    I think those are the two folks that just joined cuz Ello and I were in the administrator group together. Oh, do you? The two joining are probably the department chair  
Speaker 1    00:44:26    Is  
Speaker 10    00:44:27    Be the department chair or Z do will.  
Speaker 12    00:44:31    Okay. Very cool. I guess I'm the only one that is in the, was in the, the physician researcher one. Okay, cool.  
Speaker 10    00:44:41    Okay. You are a physician.  
Speaker 12    00:44:43    I am physician  
Speaker 10    00:44:45    The all star researcher.  
Speaker 12    00:44:46    That's I've got my medicines behind me to prove it.  
Speaker 10    00:44:52    All right. And so Morgan, are you the, the administrator, is that correct?  
Speaker 6    00:44:58    Yeah. Aloia and I are both from the administrator crew.  
Speaker 10    00:45:01    Okay, cool. Aloia Hey Aishia all right. So did, did Juan give you a prompt or should be wait? Right. Okay.  
Speaker 6    00:45:15    We've not got it. Onpro.  
Speaker 12    00:45:17    Are we supposed to be waiting for one or just jumping in?  
Speaker 10    00:45:20    I believe so. I, we can jump in. I, I, I guess it depends on the administrator. Do you have like a good idea of how you're mediating? Cause I think that's what I got out of. It was  
Speaker 12    00:45:32    That because there's the scenario one or the scenario two.  
Speaker 6    00:45:37    Yeah. Yeah. And far as I understand from one, I think that we're gonna get a unique prompt.  
Speaker 10    00:45:48    Yeah. Let me ask Juan real quick,  
Speaker 6    00:45:54    Because I think what's designed here is that there's like a, some prep conversations that we're not going through. We're just like diving into the triad. Cool. Cuz these scenario one and scenario two is like as if like the department chair and I had had like lunch together and we're chit-chatting about stuff. Yeah.  
Speaker 12    00:46:15    I saw that  
Speaker 6    00:46:17    As far as I understand, kind of like the role of the administrators for me to kind of like offer to both the, the director and the physician researcher around like, you know, kind of like what consequences are you all tending to considering how far stretch the physician researcher has done and what are the consequences  
Speaker 12    00:46:37    I had to look up what effort reporting was.  
Speaker 6    00:46:41    There's so much in here. They're like study it in five minutes, figure it out. And then like the tense of the questions that we're supposed to ask ourselves, like flipped roles twice and like, like what the fuck? So who's the other person that's also being the director.  
Speaker 10    00:47:03    Okay. I think we just go ahead with one of the scenarios.  
Speaker 6    00:47:07    Okay. One of the scenarios. So director, you have asked a fellow administrator, the trusted colleague, myself Aisha has my sidekick to have lunch away from campus so we can discuss how to best approach the situation with your physician researcher, superstar professor. So Brittany you're here, but not here. He'll pop in with your, your ego if you want.  
Speaker 12    00:47:30    I, I participate in scenario too. So I just get to listen to you two talk shit about me for a little bit.  
Speaker 6    00:47:37    Totally cool.  
Speaker 10    00:47:38    That's right. So I guess I'll, I'll start with the, the prompt. So the continuing saga of my problem child and the neurology department has taken a new turn  
Speaker 6    00:47:49    For the worst. I take it.  
Speaker 10    00:47:51    She just let me know that she'll be stopping by to have me sign off on a new proposal to the NIH.  
Speaker 6    00:47:58    So what's the issue with that? What's the problem?  
Speaker 10    00:48:01    So the problem is, is that she has continually, she, she, she's a great researcher, but she's been overextending herself. And most of her students are doing her work now and it's becoming a problem because it's a huge liability. And this greatest effort report that was submitted is kind of exaggerated almost to the point where it's lying, you know, and, and for me, that's, that's a huge issue and we're taking a big risk as an institution by allowing this to happen. And yeah, I just kind of want her to, you know, take less of a role. I know she wants these things and she wants to get the new grant, but for us it's just kind of, it's a, it's a, a high end risk for us. And so we, we want to try to prevent her from over overworking, her postdocs and her students that she's working with and making sure that she's actually doing the work that she's doing and there's some accountability there. So that's, that's the problem from my perspective.  
Speaker 6    00:49:04    Yeah. And in your conversations with Brittany, do you have any sense on what driving is driving her behavior?  
Speaker 10    00:49:11    No. I mean, you know, she's, she's very, she's very aggressive for the notoriety that comes with being an all star researcher. And she's constantly reminded us that, you know, she's had offers from other institutions and using that as leverage to keep getting the work from us that we have. And so I, part of me thinks it's just kind of this, you know, wanting to, to, to be the best in, in her field, which is not a bad thing. But at times it, it gets frustrating to manage that, cuz she's always just leveraging that against us. And so I would really, at the end of the day, I would like her to not be in charge of this grant and possibly delegate it to another researcher.  
Speaker 6    00:49:53    Yeah. So my line of curiosity goes to like, if you refuse to sign the application that she's proposing to you, what do you think might happen? The trickle?  
Speaker 10    00:50:01    Yeah, that's a tough one. Cause I'm afraid that we will, we may lose her. And the thing is, is that I, I don't want to sign her effort report because I, I do think it's false and that that's kind of the, the big basis of what, we're, what I want to prevent. Like we, we need to go over the fact that some of these, these claims and her effort report are just fabricated.  
Speaker 6    00:50:24    So you're like between the tenuous options of taking on the liability of her stretching, her limits, but then also you lose the, the assets that she brings to the, to the table. Have you all had a conversation about like, you know, what those layers of vulnerability are, so that at least it's been spoken to in a transparent way and she knows what the consequences are. If like,  
Speaker 10    00:50:51    No, we  
Speaker 6    00:50:51    Haven't depends on her reports do get investigated.  
Speaker 10    00:50:54    Yeah, we haven't, we haven't done that at all. And, and the thing is, is that, you know, most of our relationship has been based on her trying to leverage more work and get more grants through the institution. And so I'm not sure how that would pan out or the consequences that will fall out. And I can't afford  
Speaker 6    00:51:17    A proposition for you. Yeah. Shall we bring miss Brittany into the conversation?  
Speaker 10    00:51:20    Let's do it and have  
Speaker 6    00:51:21    This, have this conversation.  
Speaker 10    00:51:23    Absolutely.  
Speaker 12    00:51:28    Hello. So hi. So did you get my email?  
Speaker 10    00:51:34    I did.  
Speaker 12    00:51:36    Very good. So all I need is your signature on, on my application to the NIH and I'll be out of your hair.  
Speaker 10    00:51:44    Oh man. So let's, let's talk a little bit about this report from the application, the NIH we have to go over. See, this is where I  
Speaker 6    00:51:55    Have to break care over a little facilitation for you all.  
Speaker 10    00:51:58    Yeah, please.  
Speaker 6    00:52:00    Sure. So Nate, thank you so much for, for bringing in this conversation to make sure that Brittany is held in great care by this department and that their work is being validated and also that you all can work together in a streamline way. So Brittany have been audio,  
Speaker 12    00:52:17    Your audio's cutting out.  
Speaker 6    00:52:19    Oh shit. Is it clear now?  
Speaker 12    00:52:23    Yeah.  
Speaker 10    00:52:23    Yeah. I can hear. Okay.  
Speaker 6    00:52:26    You want me to repeat or just kinda keep going?  
Speaker 12    00:52:27    Nah, I keep going.  
Speaker 6    00:52:29    Okay. So we're here to have a conversation to figure out how to best support you in the work that you're offering in the department. And also to sort of look through a little bit of the pieces of the contract or the application that you put forward that they wanted to bring some to. And I'm here to hold some space to make sure that you both are human each other and get your needs met.  
Speaker 12    00:52:49    Well, I mean, I really was just expecting to come here and have 'em sign off. I mean, as we already know, I am the principal investigator already of two large NIH programs. So I wasn't really expecting that there would be much to talk about what, what seems to be the issue.  
Speaker 10    00:53:10    Well, first off, I, I think that, you know, you, you have a lot of postdocs and students that are doing a lot of the work in these past grants that you've had, and that is very concerning from our perspective and the effort report.  
Speaker 12    00:53:24    Go ahead. Can I, can I ask what's concerning about that? I've been delegating to my medical students, various duties and things that need to be done, and I've never had a problem with that before. So, you know, as you know, I direct a course for medical students. I have many different trainees and you know, I, I travel often. I have a lot of things going on and so I delegate different aspects of the effort reports to them and I trust their ability to be able to come up with correct reporting. So, I mean, what's the issue now?  
Speaker 10    00:54:04    So, so  
Speaker 12    00:54:05    Doing this a long time.  
Speaker 10    00:54:07    Yeah. It's the effort report the, the, the federal auditors come in and make sure that the, the compensation that we're giving you is, is reflected within your different roles as a teacher, as a researcher, as a public service administrator and other university related activities. And we are because you've taken on so much research work that you have kind of delegated too much of the work to others. And, and the effort report that you had submitted indicated that you had been doing almost all of this work. And we, we find that to be har find that hard to believe with the amount of student and postdocs that have been turning in work for you. And so it's really hard to justify that type of risk when a federal auditor comes in order to actually justify giving you this new grant.  
Speaker 12    00:54:59    Well, I've gone through many federal investigations before and I've come out winning on all of them. So, you know, I'm not new to this. And, you know, I can 100% back the effort reports that they are true and accurate.  
Speaker 6    00:55:19    So what I'm noticing is there's a bit of discrepancy between the two of you all. And I'm wondering if it might be beneficial to like maybe get into some of the minutia. We don't have these details, sorry, bar, but to get into the minutiae of what the re of what the responsibilities of the university are that we're being held to, and be able to like near it as honestly, to the work that Brittany you are bringing to the table, cuz we like deeply respect you and your kickoffs research. And we're super thankful for what you're bringing. And also it seems like there's some discrepancies around like what the university needs to show and they don't feel like they can show it at this time. So I'm wondering if we might be able to set up a time to kind of like walk through those steps with one minute, would you both be open to that?  
Speaker 12    00:56:00    Absolutely. I, I have no problem, you know, kind of going through the details of how I delegate and how the numbers, how we come to them to make sure that you're comfortable with the reports that I'm giving. Because I do understand because I have been through many federal audits before that it is important that all the, the details, the minutia, as you said, is exact so that you can get through these, these federal audits clean and clear.  
Speaker 10    00:56:33    Yep. I, and I, I would agree too. I, I think it's very important that we have a conversation about this. My main concern is that the, the, the, this NIH institutional research training grant would fit, admit four more trainees per year that require your supervision on top of the research that you're doing. And so my, my bottom line is, is that I will not sign this application unless we come to an agreement that you are capable of, both handling the responsibilities that you've signed up to do. And that's that you are not delegating too many tasks to those who are unpaid and student post-docs.  
Speaker 12    00:57:12    Well, you know, I recently got a divorce and I've got all the time in the world to devote to this project. I'm very focused. And like I said, you know, I've got already two NIH underneath my belt that have been running for a while. And I feel confident that I am the perfect person to be the principal investigator for this particular grant.  
Speaker 10    00:57:36    And is, is there any concern like, is, is, is there a problem if you do not get this, this grant?  
Speaker 12    00:57:43    Well, absolutely. You know, I'm, I got a divorce, you know, based upon being able to allocate all of my time to my research. And as we know, I've got many opportunities to go other places, and I really have my heart set on this particular project. So, you know, like I said, I'm willing to sit down and go over the details, the minutia to make sure that you're comfortable, but you know, after I do that, I'm expecting to be able to add this to my, my list of, and I H projects underneath my belt, I've deserved it and I've earned it.  
Speaker 10    00:58:23    You, you have, and we value you tremendously, but there's, there's one aspect that is that it, it kind of, it kind of sets up this conflicting area where, you know, we know how valuable you are, but to be operating under these, these guidelines and these restrictions, and knowing that you can use this as leverage to get other offers from universities and things like that makes it very difficult for us to make decisions about this because we do value your research and your expertise, but we also want to prevent, you know, any type of, you know, of, of holding that against the institution, enforcing us to make decisions that we don't want.  
Speaker 12    00:59:04    Well, I would hope after, you know, we've had this discussion and we've gone over all of the details that inevitably you'll feel comfortable with, you know, how I came to the conclusions on the effort reports, you know, but obviously, like I said, you know, I, I do do a lot and I've put a lot of effort into it and I'm not trying to swing that in front of you and, you know, push or sway one or the other. But I do have, you know, a wanting to have this particular project and I've put a lot into making sure that I'm in a position to be able to, to do the work. So yeah. You know, unfortunately if that's how you feel, I apologize, but inevitably I do have these other offers and if I don't get what I want here, then I'm obviously gonna go somewhere else.  
Speaker 6    01:00:07    Right. Sounds like we are set up for a very lively, entertaining and intense next conversation. And I am happy to be the facilitator of such said conversation five y'all.  
Speaker 1    01:00:18    Thank  
Speaker 12    01:00:19    You guys.  
Speaker 6    01:00:23    Hop, hop back into the main group, I suppose.  
Speaker 12    01:00:25    Yep. Yeah, that was fun.  
Speaker 6    01:00:28    Cheers. Y  
Speaker 4    01:00:32    Miss Brittany made me laugh so hard. That was so fun. Thank you.  
Speaker 12    01:00:38    I tried, my vocabulary is not the best, but you know, I've got the right attitude.  
Speaker 4    01:00:44    That was awesome. Thank you.  
Speaker 0    01:01:05    Hello everyone. How did you find activity  
Speaker 13    01:01:17    Challenging?  
Speaker 0    01:01:18    Yeah. What, what, what was the, the, the agreement that, that you did?  
Speaker 13    01:01:28    Our group came to an agreement to replace the principal investigator. We were able to, to talk the superstar into changing the forms and, and replacing themselves as the, as the P one. I'm curious how the other groups resolved.  
Speaker 0    01:01:48    Yeah. Was there a different alternative that other groups reach, reach to it?  
Speaker 10    01:01:58    We, we agreed to continue negotiations.  
Speaker 0    01:02:05    And did someone continue to, to have the superstar as the principal researcher?  
Speaker 14    01:02:16    No, I think we offered or like in our group, the physician was offered to, to help others and supervise them because he has like outstanding skills and that this will also be good for his reputation and yeah, that was the compromise and, and that these steps back, but helps others. Yeah.  
Speaker 0    01:02:43    Well, everyone, thank you. Thank you so much for, for this 10 hour training. I hope you really liked it. This, this exercise was also fun because it's, it's a thing that we see every day and not all conflicts are actually adversarial positions. So some of them are just coordination issues and, and it's, it's good that we can have practice to, to, to manage these kind of, of scenarios that when we leave it as a role play, we, we can also learn for our, for our own practice in our, in our everyday life. So well with, with nothing more to say from my side, I will just say, thank you all for coming for joining the, the graviton trainings and that I hope to see you very soon and to, and to stay close. If you want to say something, the, the, the mic is, is, is open.  
Speaker 10    01:03:50    I'll say keep up with gravity, Dell.  
Speaker 0    01:03:55    Thank you, Nate.  
Speaker 15    01:03:59    Yes, I, I echo that QKA and it just made me really happy when you were like doing some retrospective on, on gravity and, and some of the goals that you had for the second gravity training and how all those expectations were met. And it was like beyond that, when it was so enriched by so many people that that could make it for, for the second training. So, yeah. Raise, raise the bar for the third one. I'm I'm pretty sure the gravity doubt will reach its goals. And thank you. And congratulations for this. 
