Speaker 0    00:00:00    Yay welcome. Y'all I have a question embedded in the presentation that I already had planned. So maybe that can work out in a few moments. Also wanna honor that if lean had something for the inclusive welcome, super happy to, to jam on that too. I do know that there are a few key people that are still missing. Do we wanna hang out until they get on here? What, right now I only see that there's six of us. Is that true?  
Speaker 2    00:00:44    Turn on your non-video participants. Yeah.  
Speaker 0    00:00:49    Non-video participants.  
Speaker 2    00:00:51    Non-video participants or people too.  
Speaker 0    00:00:56    What's my technology doing?  
Speaker 2    00:00:58    Or are they,  
Speaker 0    00:01:01    They, we welcome all non-video that  
Speaker 4    00:01:06    Sounds like I'm sure you would say lean.  
Speaker 0    00:01:12    Hmm. Far as my tech options,  
Speaker 3    00:01:17    We might be robot  
Speaker 4    00:01:21    Dis embodied voices. Oh yeah.  
Speaker 0    00:01:26    The talk about embodiment, the irony. Let's see. I'm trying to see where I can still,  
Speaker 3    00:01:37    I will make you a host so that you can share your screen. Yeah. And the only thing is that you need to accept the people into the, into the,  
Speaker 4    00:01:49    If you make me a cohost, I can help.  
Speaker 3    00:01:52    I don't know how to do, how to do that. Of making a cohost.  
Speaker 4    00:01:57    You look on participants list. You can tell who lives in zoom. Right.  
Speaker 3    00:02:10    But it says, make host, it doesn't have the co-host  
Speaker 0    00:02:19    Well, if you make me host, I can make co-host.  
Speaker 3    00:02:22    Yeah.  
Speaker 0    00:02:51    Yeah. I cohost option Jeremy. You want me to make you host?  
Speaker 5    00:03:01    No.  
Speaker 0    00:03:23    Okay. Well, I will aim to do the best that I can in regards to admitting folks as they arrive. So welcome everybody. So wonderful to get to see you today. Good morning. Good evening, etc. Wherever you might be something that I'm hoping that we might be able to offer each other is an opportunity to both share a little bit more about ourselves in the way that we name each other in zoom or name ourselves in zoom as well, and is in the chat. So if we can take a few moments, so please, if you don't already have it to put the name that you would like to be addressed as in this conversation today in the name on your zoom profile, in addition to the pronoun or pronouns that you use, so that as we're in conversation, we can be inclusive of our gender identity to the best that we can through the limitation of language. So to be able to do that, go up to participants, find yourself should be a little bit next to it, to be able to rename yourself. And if you've already got that going on, then you can support the team by continuing to ground in your breath.  
Speaker 0    00:04:42    Take some breaths to welcome yourself here. Alrighty, cool. People are still showing up. Welcome. Y'all  
Speaker 0    00:04:59    Alrighty. And so once you get the, get the opportunity to put your name and your pronouns in your zoom name, please, please, please also take a moment to share in the chat. If you feel like you got thes for it or the, for it is to something that you can in your body. It can be a sensation other state that might be as well as where on this, as you are time to type that in so that we know both how we're showing up and where we're coming in from. I'll be able to share that with you all too. My name is Morgan, and you say them pronouns. I'm connecting with you all from Puyallup land, which is called Tacoma, Washington in the Pacific Northwest of the United States. And something that I am feeling in my body is adrenaline pumping in my shoulders for the excitement that I have to be here with you all today, writing let's see what we got going on in the chat here. Welcome to everybody who's arriving. So happy to have you  
Speaker 0    00:06:36    All right. I'll be taking a look out for where y'all are from. Thank you for your willingness to be able to share with each other. We haven't looked in already take a look at the chat for folks sharing how their body's feeling today and where they are connected from. We can start to kind of develop that global map that we got going on, and I love to see the movement that is already happening. This is excellent. All right. You also a little bit of a grounding exercise to gather with one another one in 10, by two, all to five collective breaths. You're welcome to do that with your eyes open as closed. Also, you're welcome to shift your body at any point during this practice as we were talking together today. So as you practice starting to notice what it feels like to breathe, maybe taking a breath to check out your environment, notice exits entrances, places you're receiving light from. You're welcome to trace your eyes around. If you like check it out also then maybe taking a breath to recognize the ancestors that you represent in your body. As you gather here, a big old breath for them. You're also welcome to take a breath to honor the supports that you have, the supports that are able to be rocking it so that you can show up today.  
Speaker 0    00:08:17    I also taking a breath to notice your muscles. Are there any muscles that need to move? Are there any muscles that need a little bit of touch wiggle stretch and maybe one last for anything that you wanna it for, for something I have yet to mention. So I want to start by saying that any information that I am sharing today is shared explicitly in efforts for us to collectively share or collectively create connected, healthy, robust, and resilient relationships with our bodies so that we can navigate uprooting and disentangling ourselves from any patterns of violence, not limited to, but including white body supremacy, colonialism, extractive, economics, ableism, heteronormativity, CIS normativity, binary, thinking of any sort religious suppression and many others that I might not have space and time to make. And that we can have more information to be able to create opportunities for interconnected, sustainable, and collaboration for our mutual collaboration. So you're welcome to take a couples. I'm like let that land if there's a resonance to it.  
Speaker 0    00:09:54    And I'm noticing that in regards to me being able to participate well with you all today, I'm not really able to co monitor the chat on my iPad as well as I can on my laptop. So there's anything that pops up in the chat. Can I have a few chat helpers kind of keep an eye on that with me? If there's a question that feels like it's pertinent and timely to interrupt the conversation, I wanna make sure that folks have access that way. I see a nod from Jeremy, Jeremy, you being that one of, is there another teammate that can help out chat one? Okay.  
Speaker 0    00:10:47    So decrease the stranger danger. I'll introduce myself a little bit and then we'll go into the content. So my name is Morgan. I am a queer neuro divergent gender queer person living on Puyallup land. Like I shared as a settler and I am a constant learner, an unlearner that wants to offer deep respects to any of the teachers that I've shared space with along the way, particularly any of the queer trans black and indigenous youth peers and elders that have shared their time and their willingness to co-teach with me, I've pretty much spent my life trying to figure out and study the impacts of, and the opportunities for restoration from relational and systemic violence, body and earth based science are my jam. My passion, and I aim to take deep responsibility for wiring myself for the behavioral patterns that allow for me to practice collaborating relationships with my body and the living bodies around me and professionally. I've been of service as a social choreographer movement, facilitator, community connector, complex trauma specialists for a few decades. Now, mostly on the west coast of the United States, Latin American, Caribbean, and on international collaborative teams. And I hope that this conversation is a sweet opportunity for seed pointing for ongoing conversations about anything that we bring up and that we could be in constant learning with each other. And I am in deep, deep, deep gratitude to be sharing space with you all. Hi, cool.  
Speaker 0    00:12:24    So let's see here. So Jeremy, is there anything in the chat that I need to know so far? So good  
Speaker 4    00:12:36    Folks are here and expressing a lot of gratitude for good vibes.  
Speaker 0    00:12:43    Excellent, awesome. Make sure that I admitted everybody. Cool. So share some opening thoughts and kind like context planting for us to be able to plant the kind of roots that are required for the relationships that we wanna co build with one another. We gotta kind of like till some soil. And so these thoughts are for that. So every time that we gather with each other, we bring our whole selves, our lived history, our ancestry, our cultural, our lived experience. And today I wanna make sure that, you know, what words I'm using to describe that I'll call that our live survivorship or the wisdom of our survivorship or the density of our survivorship. I wanna make sure that in this conversation, anytime we bring up trauma or oppression or systems of violence or the potentiality of harm, our body's gonna like activate that just by thinking about it.  
Speaker 0    00:13:37    We're all gonna have our own points of reference for that. And since that is visually AC viscerally activating, I wanna invite you all to a moment of consideration of what methods of self-care you have access to during this call and ones that you wanna plan for when you get off. So that could be making sure you got some water with you. If you got something like nature bound that you can hold onto, maybe a rock or some wood, and please recognize that in this space, we won't necessarily have time to be able to like expand on details of our own lived history, but if something pops up for you, that means it's worth paying attention to so write it down and make sure you plan for an opportunity to be able to revisit that and give it honor when you do have space and time to be able to tend to it. And as we gather today, make sure that you are giving yourself opportunities to move, to wiggle, to stretch, to be able to honor what does come up in your body.  
Speaker 0    00:14:38    So a baseline fact that I wanna make as you know, kind of a, a consideration as we're talking today is that all of us are an interesting combination of survivor of, and participants in systems of oppression. We are not separate from. And so each of us have certain aspects of our identities and cultural positionalities that are either more or less protected amidst systems of oppression. And so for those of us that might have a higher density of identities that are unprotected within systems of harm. I wanna lay out the foundation that that is a sign of having a higher level of survivorship wisdom and badassery. So let that sink in with the breath or so.  
Speaker 0    00:15:32    And in this space, we wanna make sure that that density of survivorship and that wisdom and that bad SRE is deeply respected of equal measure any of the positionality or cultural identities that you hold that are more protected within systems of oppression. There's a higher likelihood that you might unknowingly participate in causing harm just out of just not knowing because you've been so protected. And in that we wanna make sure that in this environment, we're also holding ourselves responsible for being mindful about tuning in to that potentiality. And then I also wanna name that by virtue of us all speaking English with one another and English being the dominant language in this space, we are participating in a really tricky and violent history of colonialism while we're trying to use this code and language, to be able to create opportunities for care and connection and liberation and possibilities to work together. So I just wanna name that, but there's a lot of complexity in trying to use English as a tool because of its history and because of the ways that our tongues, our throats and our bodies have learned to speak it.  
Speaker 0    00:16:52    So those are some open thought y'all before we dive into some body facts. So I get curious with each other about some of the hard wired stuff in our body that need our attention and that we cannot bypass when we're aiming to create trauma sensitive and anti-oppressive space with one another. The first being that your body is made up of 75% water, and you live on a planet that is made up of 75% water in that we are very Perme beings, permeable beings, our thoughts and the energy around us impact how our water molecules form with one another. And our relationship with hydration is one of the places that we can deeply invest in the trauma sense relationship with ourselves to make sure that we are thoroughly hydrated, as best as we can team hydrate. Yes, as well as getting curious and noticing what your relationship with your water and your environment is where you source your water, the health of it, how much you contact it and how much you're in relationship with it. So, particularly as we take on the work that we're up to wanna offer a reflection moment for you to consider in this moment, as I'm jamming right now, what's my relationship with hydration?  
Speaker 0    00:18:13    What kind of curiosity can I offer to it? And how might I participate with that said take a,  
Speaker 0    00:18:29    Some other body facts I don't wanna bring into this conversation is an interesting percentage as well about our bodies is in regards to the signal conduction within our body and also how we signal with each other, from body to body. So in our body, the systems that allow us to notice if we are well or unwell safe or unsafe, or indeed of something conduct, apparently meaning body to brain, about 85% of all of those signals come from our body. That means that the foundation of our thoughts, our perception, our brain capacity, and access to how we use our brain primarily come from body sensations like heartbeat, gut pulse, circulation, breath, rate, all that jazz. And so our body's capacity for us or our capacity to pick up on our body's signals is going to give us 85% of our sensation of being connected to self connected to others present. And so how we move, how we breathe and what we put in our bodies are the first layer of how we can create a trauma sensitive relationship with ourselves and with others, happy to do a deep dive on your polyvagal system, which is what I'm citing when I'm talking about that 85% body brain conduction, that can be a later talk seed.  
Speaker 0    00:19:56    The other consideration in regards to our bodies. That's another 85% number. My neuro divergence loves numbers and patterns is that 85% of our communication is nonverbal.  
Speaker 0    00:20:10    I'm say that again. 85% of our communication is nonverbal. So here we are in web three rocking words, flying across the universe, like trying to type out stuff that's super complex. And we're depending on the 15% to be able to navigate with one another where there's this like, that is so key for us to be able to notice if there's resonance connection capacity for collaboration, that all comes from our heart rate, our breath rate, our facial expression, our tone, our, our gestures, our physical proximity. So in communities like Gravity and invitation here for trauma sensitivity is to consider how can we cultivate to nonverbal communication to one, the 15% that verbal stuff gets in the way, then we, there's probably another 85% of discovery and curiosity that we may have missed when we're receiving messages from one another.  
Speaker 0    00:21:17    There's another interesting fact about our bodies electrically from our heart, we emit an eight foot radius fear around us of an electrical field all the time, every single body, every time our heartbeats and that we breathe, we emit eight feet forward, back up, down all around us of a pulse. Our bodies are used to being close enough with one another, so that pulse interacts. And then we get ideas about how to be in relationship with one another and how to be able to co feel with one another. Now we're aiming to do something that's incredibly challenging to not have access to that electrical pulse, because we're doing this screen thing in that it can be really helpful to consider imagining what it would be like to actually be within that eight foot radius of one another. What could it feel like to sense each other's heart rates? Cause we're meant to co signal with each other so that we can be an effective collaboration.  
Speaker 0    00:22:21    Now, all of this stuff, your body's signaling to your brain and our body signaling to one another. One of the main places that we have access to, to be able to work that stuff, give it fuel, use it effectively is through the way that we breathe. That is our mechanical and muscular access point to be able to be in presence with our own body and in presence with the bodies around us. So that means the rhythm of it, the movement of it, which muscles you use for it. And our breath is meant to be able to help us meet the present moment. That means our breath can help us feel our passion, our excitement, our capacity to rev up and get into something, to be able to bring us to ground, to center, to calm and everything in between. And so I wanted to take a little bit of time to do an activity around our breath. I'm also gonna do a time check.  
Speaker 0    00:23:18    Sweet, Ooh, don't fall clock. So on anything that you have to write down, text it to yourself, write it down or whatever. Maybe it's taking a moment or two to kind of notice what parts of your breath you're able to feel as it is right now, breathing in and outta your nose. What parts of your torso might be moving as you're the rhythm of it? And sometimes we don't feel our breath either take a little note, and then I wanna offer you some like downloads about your breath. We have five muscle groups that we use to help ourselves breathe. First muscle group is kind of like this collar that we got from like our sternal masks, these guide along our neck and our upper shoulders as group number one group. Number two is our pectoral muscles for our upper chest group. Number three is our intercostal muscles.  
Speaker 0    00:24:25    They run between every single one of our ribs from our collarbones down to the bottom for like almost kinda like 360 expansion next group. Cause it's a big old muscle is your diaphragm runs along the bottom of your ribcage moves up and down like a parachute for every breath. And then you have a web I'll back up a little bit of your abdominal muscles that really run internally and externally around the kind of bottom part of your torso. And all five of those groups are involved in your breath. Often we get kind of habitually patterned to breathe with only certain muscles and underuse others. And all five of those groups are necessary for us to be able to kind of access the kind of breath that we need to create sustainable connected relationships with each other to counter act, falling into patterns of our survival responses that can cause harm.  
Speaker 0    00:25:17    So this activity is to take a little bit of time to kind of like work through each of those muscle groups and notice how they're working. So in your own way, eyes open as close. However you wanna rock it beginning with a breath to notice which of those muscle groups you notice first pectoral muscles, Pentecostals, diaphragm, you'll notice at the bottom of your ribs, abdominal muscles, and then maybe offer yourself a moment or two to be able to take five breath in sequence, find from the top and moving group by group. Just kind of experiment with noticing what it feels like to move them on purpose. Maybe one or two more breaths, depending on how you're pacing yourself right now. And maybe taking a note or two either for yourself or publicly in the chat, if you would like to as to any kind of like curious things that you noticed, any shifts that happened in your state or your perception as you practice breathing. And if anybody wants to share verbally, please feel free. I heard a voice got breath that starts from the bottom up.  
Speaker 7    00:27:24    I can come in. Ooh. Yeah. I feel like my posture posture changes. My body naturally moves into a posture where it allows those groups, muscle groups to have more oxygen. I also noticed that to have like louder exhale and use my voice as I Amling is very helpful to, to relax those  
Speaker 0    00:28:21    Reflection. What Justin shared is that using our muscles effectively takes practice. So they were commenting about, or he was commenting about his practices and meditation. And through those practices ended up being able to access using abdominal muscles for support in their breath. So sometimes depending on how much violence we've experienced or trauma we've experienced, there are certain breath muscles that we have, like not practiced accessing because our body has gone into a survival response to keep us alive. And as we practice accessing muscles that we haven't in the past a little caveat is that sometimes that feels really fucking awkward. Sometimes it feels really painful. Sometimes it feels almost impossible. So please practice accessing your breath muscles in a way where you get to consent to it. There's no force. There's no right way to breathe. We're accessing these five breath, muscle groups kind of like five musicians trying to play the song that's gonna best meet our moment. Sometimes we need to be able to practice breathing a breath that allows us to experience rage. That allows us to experience inspiration. That allows us to experience passion, to allow us to feel our like bigness. So all of these muscles get to move in an interconnected way to be able to support you in what you're up to.  
Speaker 0    00:29:44    Alrighty, I'm noticing I need a little bit of fresh air. Just little reminder, 10 to your body. Please move. Please stretch. Grab some water if you need. So we're moving five breath, muscle groups to our five survival responses tuning in again to like the things that are automatically happening in our body to keep us alive, to keep us in the game. So our five survival responses, our fight flight freeze submit fun or appease. This is kind of this like fifth, sixth one that you know, researchers talk about a little bit differently, depending on how they're rocking. It I'll review 'em again. But something to consider is that our bodies automatically choose our survival responses based off of what our ancestors have used to keep us alive and in the game, as well as the survival responses that I've worked for us to be able to continue like existing and continuing staying alive.  
Speaker 0    00:30:57    So our bodies choose it based off of the environment, based off of our own positionality. This is a subconscious choice that we're equipped with to be able to keep ourselves and they happen on low volume and high volume anytime, or I'll definitely repeat them. You'll hear them over and over and over again. They happen on automatic and they happen on any volume. Anytime our body has a sense of being under threat, whether an idea of ours under threat, an aspect of our identity is under threat or being questioned. And so again, fight flight freeze, submit F or appease. This happens through our language. This happens through our posture. This happens through every single element of us. And so fight might be like, I automatically defend myself. My volume gets higher. My body gets bigger. Flight is any form of avoidance. I get the fuck out of there.  
Speaker 0    00:32:01    I get the fuck out of a conversation. I stop thinking about that thing. I avoid it freeze. As you lock up, it can be a full body lockup. It can be your mouth locks up. Your mind locks up, keeps you in a pause just to see if like you're gonna be okay, submit and fun. And appease are ones that we talk about less. And these are ones that we need to be really, really, really mindful of because they're a little bit harder to notice, fight and flight much easier to notice cuz they like lead you to do something you free submit or a piece. How's my internet connection. Yellow. Is it coming through? Okay. I'm noticing a little bit of like stickiness. All good. Okay. So freeze submit and fun are ones that we may not notice that somebody's in the survival response because freeze means they're just chilling.  
Speaker 0    00:32:53    They're hanging out and being still like, well you didn't say anything. So you must have not wanted to submit is where we like go along to get along with the powers that be we'll follow. We'll just be like, okay, it's easier to just get fucking through this than to resist. And typically these last three are ones that the bodies that have experienced a higher density of harm, we tend to rock these last three. So being mindful of the subtleties of these both in your own body and for people on teams that you're working with is incredibly incredibly important.  
Speaker 0    00:33:29    So we've got freeze holding, still submit going along to get along fun and appease or this interesting dance where we will play and act like the powers that be to good alarm with them. We'll start to notice that we're gonna like say shit that we didn't really mean because this is gonna like agree with the powers that be and appease is that we kind like appease to the powers at be. We might just like start complimenting them and stuff and like, like hoisting them up a little bit or appeasing to their perspectives. And these are ones that we need to be really, really, really, really mindful of on teams. And this comes into the play when we talk about consent, making sure that when we get to say yes, we're actually saying yes, when we know we get to say no and each of these have a muscular pattern.  
Speaker 0    00:34:19    Each of these have sensations that go along with them, body temperature phrases. And so collectively it's worthwhile for us to continue to start to what do my survival responses feel like? What do they sound like? How do they show up? And to take time on teams to notice if they're showing up on your teams and we're so used to being in these survival responses, cuz we've had to do them that we haven't practiced questioning them. And so it's really, really, really important that we start to a notice them name them and be able to pattern our bodies for alternate options, all turn anything in the chat that I should notice how we doing.  
Speaker 4    00:35:18    There are some really interesting observations on breath. I don't want put any on blast, but if there's space to share out, I would encourage you  
Speaker 3    00:35:32    Also lean was asking the list, the words, the keyword  
Speaker 0    00:35:40    You want me to write 'em down?  
Speaker 1    00:35:42    Yeah.  
Speaker 3    00:35:43    Flag risk and piece are, are, are those ones  
Speaker 0    00:36:04    We got nifty options. Yes.  
Speaker 3    00:36:10    Also I just want to update on the pop thing. I already sent a request. So if we don't have the, the word able for this hour, we will drop them by DM. So just to let you know that either way you will receive the pop. If, if we can send it before the end of this call, it's good. If not check your DMS,  
Speaker 0    00:36:44    I coordinating with wishes for those special word to be survivorship. Did that get worked out or did it get missed along the way somewhere?  
Speaker 3    00:36:54    No, the word is good. The thing is that they are very narrow on the, on the claiming time and yeah, they sent us an email to clarify some things. I already replied the email, but I am waiting for the response.  
Speaker 0    00:37:11    Gotcha. Well thank you for navigating that super appreciates. Righty. Cool. Yeah. So the topic title of this topic was trauma sensitive and anti-oppressive culture. So now that we have like that body based laid out of the ways that our bodies work accessibility that we have in regards to how we breathe, to be able to a notice if we're in our survival responses and also to bring ourselves out of them and into connection and presence with one another, I wanted to lay out some like characteristics that those skills help us build with one another. So some ideas that I've kind of collected in collected in being in community with one with other folks that are focusing on this work is that a, we kind of have to come up with an understanding of like, what is trauma. And that could take, we could go into so many details about that, but I wanna give some like general descriptions around like ways we can keep paying attention for it.  
Speaker 0    00:38:19    And then also give some opportunities for us to describe what we're working towards because our bodies really need to know what our positive opposite is or the alternative behavior set. In addition to knowing what we like shouldn't be doing. So trauma has a higher likelihood to happen in situations where too much is happening too fast. I'm gonna say that again has a higher likelihood of happening when too much is happening too fast. Cause when it's too fast, too much, our bodies cannot process. Our nervous systems can only take on so much stimulation at such speed. Another context in which trauma has a higher likelihood of happening is when we have too little for too long. So a small amount of resources for too long of a time.  
Speaker 0    00:39:10    And so that can be kind of like an easy check in is too much happening, too fast, or have we not allotted enough resources for too long? And in either those context of the high likelihood of cut causing harm questions as well to discern whether trauma has a higher likelihood of happening is if we are not paying attention to how we are practicing being protective or offering protection for and validation of the density of survivorship on our team or any group that we're working with. So really taking our time to be able to notice, am I making sure that I'm taking protective efforts to notice if any sort of system of harm is at interacting on our team? Are we slowing down enough to notice a many patriarchal patterns are happening? If any racist patterns are happening, if any extractive patterns of economics are happening so that we can make sure that we're taking protective efforts to not be behaving in those ways.  
Speaker 0    00:40:13    So what's required for values to be able to make sure that we're offering operating in a trauma sensitive way is making sure that we're centering the bad badassery of survivorships on all of our teams. And on ourself first and foremost, we gotta be able to validate our own badassery of survivorship and the wisdom that we have what's required for that is for us to be willing to co feel the lived realities of our body and the bodies on our team. That means you gotta be able to be willing to feel sensations if your body might not have felt because it's just never lived in another skin sack on this planet and be able to be willing to go, oh, that's a sensation I've never felt before. I'm gonna make sure I can stay present to it. I'm not gonna invalidate it. I'm not gonna shut it off. I'm gonna try to stay as connected as fucking possible.  
Speaker 0    00:41:04    And also this is an interesting part as it plays into consent, is that the boundaries and expectations that we have on our team is ones that we say what we mean. And we mean what we say, they're predictable enough. We follow through with them. And they're flexible to be able to adapt to the present moment. Somebody who does a lot of work around beautiful boundary construction is apprentice. He fill, I'll write their name in the chat before I go. For sure. And they define a boundary as a boundary is something that allows me to have enough distance to both love myself and love you at the same time. AKA take care of myself and take care of you at the same time. Not just take care of you, not just take care of the team, but I gotta be able to take care of myself first. And at that point we can have reciprocity and trauma sensitive relationships.  
Speaker 0    00:41:56    We also need to be able to be aware of intersectional and global historical relationships as they play out on our team and be able to be explicitly willing to question any kind of behavior that might be replicating patterns of harm and more often than not, we're doing it unintentionally, but at least to be able to name what those patterns might be and be like, yo, what's going on. Also on any trauma sensitive team, we get to be able to participate in an embodied way where our body can show up and other folks' bodies can show up admitting more people. We practice sharing power on trauma, sensitive teams and groups by slowing down and offer enough breath and space into the tightness of complexity rushing through. It means that we're probably gonna be in a trauma response cause we're number too much, too fast. And we ask like, how am I purposely connecting with my team? And are we moving at a sustainable rhythm?  
Speaker 0    00:43:02    Lastly, wanna make sure that we're focusing on the concept of consent to be able to consent to an experience, a work project, a relationship, a conversation. We can only move from a place of consent. Being able to say an authentic yes to it or an authentic no to not participating if we're present in our bodies. So an invitation ongoing to you all is as you're moving through your life to give yourself some opportunities, to be able to pay attention to what sensations in your body, give you an understanding that something is a yes for you and also equally of importance. What sensations in your body give you a, maybe I'm gonna think about that for a while. Possibly. I don't know yet. Also what are sensations in your body that are like, no, no, not now. And maybe not ever. So let's see here.  
Speaker 5    00:44:07    Ooh,  
Speaker 0    00:44:07    That's a cool bird sound. That's fun.  
Speaker 3    00:44:14    I just wanna say that the Popop is ready and the secret word is survivorship. So I think you all should be able to claim them.  
Speaker 0    00:44:25    Awesome. Okay. I think I'm at the end, any of the download of content that I wanted to share with you all, I definitely look forward to continuing to collaborate with you all on creating videos about the stuff that we talked about, create graphics about the stuff that I got an opportunity to talk about. I want this to be as collaborative of a process as possible. Some questions I wanna leave you with is what is something that you want to remember about from the conversation today to remember about your body? What are some things that you want to remember about trauma sensitivity  
Speaker 0    00:45:11    And what are some things that you want to remember about consent? And with that, wanna open it up to conversations, curiosities questions, feedback, and thank you. So, so, so, so much to each and every one of you that showed up this morning, this afternoon, this evening, whatever part of the planet you're on. And I hope to be in continued connection with you all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So if you need a kickoff spot to share, you're welcome to share any of things that I questions around that you wanna remember about your sensitivity or, or if there's something that's like, Morgan, that didn't make sense. I, a question on  
Speaker 10    00:46:01    Question question,  
Speaker 0    00:46:03    Is that a DAO?  
Speaker 10    00:46:05    Hi.  
Speaker 0    00:46:06    Hey.  
Speaker 10    00:46:07    So if you've habituated to this, right, this, this right here, this seated life, right? So this, and maybe you've also situated yourself in a weird relationship and, and there's just a number of different things. Oh, there's rock. Then the question is, is what's the process for giving yourself permission to sort of exit that or to, you know, parse it out so that you can be like, figure out what the right response is. Do you see what I'm saying? Cause a lot of times we're, we're just like, you know, we're bound up in all these things, but then there's a person in your life and you blame them for it. You know what I mean? So there, there, so there's a bunch of things that might have happened that, you know, you're lumping all together. And so for me, it's important to be able to parse out and say, this was, you know, inherited from my family.  
Speaker 10    00:47:02    And this is inherited from the culture. This is the thing I chose to do out of agency and autonomy. This is, you know, or do I continue thinking that my agency in autonomy should go after, you know, a broken thing? Do you know what I mean? So how does one sort of figure out how to parse those things? Right. Because for me, I feel like I've gotta slow everything down and I need a lot more time, you know, being on the spectrum and everything. Right. Because I've got a lot more to process than a lot of people are aware. Right? So here we are having a shared experience, but my process is extremely different because I've, you know, everything's pushing on me. So I really feel often they have to go very slow even though to other people, I might seem like I'm going fast. So yeah, it's a weird thing to, to slow yourself down sort of consciously. And I feel like there's a speed component to the, to that trauma too. Like people are forcing me all the time to be fast, whereas I want to be really slow. But so I've adapted to the fact that I have to be fast time, but then, oh I,  
Speaker 0    00:48:09    So I got you. I  
Speaker 10    00:48:10    Got you. So like, you know, so like that's what I'm saying is just par the parsing part is, is the thing, because I, you know, have so much coming on. So any, any clue you can gimme about, about parsing? I'd appreciate.  
Speaker 0    00:48:25    Yeah. Yeah. I wanna name for myself and for everybody the order that I'm gonna like address hand. So we've got the question at hand gonna ESA AIA, and then SHK, those are the hands that I see. And so a little bit a for folks who are autistic, like myself, or experience a platitude of attention that our world likes to call ADHD, we're processing up to 60% more stimuli throughout the day. So that's too much too fasting, 100% real. And in that we have a series of choices. So what we're practicing in any of this is aiming to find new patterns that are more sustainable. So of all of the things that you talked about are good. At one access point, you have is like, how might I choose to breathe differently throughout the day?  
Speaker 0    00:49:22    I typically breathe like this. What might it be like to choose a little bit of a different breath when I'm approaching something? How might that just be enough of a shift to start to perceive things a little differently? And then from there you might notice like, huh, another change might be that I need more breaks. What, what do I need to do to offer myself more breaks so that I'm not constantly in this grind? And then I can see apertures for opportunities to choose something different. And from there we keep on engaging choice after choice, after choice, recognizing that anytime that we bring on novelty, our body's gonna try to be like, woo, cognitive dissonance. I don't like this new thing. And we get to like nurture ourselves being like you're safe enough. You can try that out, work on it and super down to have ongoing conversations with you too, cuz wanna make sure I get to other folks that have their hands raised, what you got.  
Speaker 11    00:50:20    So I'm thinking and I'm processing about what you said earlier about our bodies are 85% water and our relationship with water and hydration. And I'm always dehydrated. Always, always, always, even me trying to go get apps to drink more water. I buy water. I have filters. I have all these plans to drink more water. And I just don't and sitting in this conversation and thinking about the trauma that I've experienced, that my family's experienced that my ancestors experience and wondering what their relationship with water is. And if I'm carrying that along with me and that's maybe why I kind of freeze when it comes to drinking water, like this has been a really big issue with me and I've never really thought about it until I came to this conversation today right here. And so it's definitely gonna give me a lot to think about and process, but I do feel like that this may be a starting point on a way of healing. Thank you.  
Speaker 0    00:51:33    Yes. Oh my gosh. I'm like literally exploding with joy. Oh my gosh. That is so gorgeous. Oh, so gorgeous. Yeah. A reminder that anytime we have, maybe like you're saying that you've not had enough water in your body and we might have not had enough of a lot of things. Safety, security, touch food, et cetera. So time we start to approach a resource that we haven't been in, consistent relationship with our body's gonna be like, are you sure? You sure that's what you wanna do? Are you sure? And so that moment is where we get to like really nurture our relationship with when we have a trauma response, how do we go? Like I hear you. I feel you maybe let's try something a tiny bit different. I can see the benefit of this thing I wanna lean into. But every time we make one of those choices, we bring up all of the grief of the times that we didn't have touch water, nourishment, safety, et cetera. So go at this pace that you can metabolize that grief as you're like, re-engaging with the possibility of hydrating in a way that you go, like I'm drinking this one for you, ancestors. Let's take it back. Let's go like, all right. And when, again, totally down to be ongoing conversations, please reach out to me what you got. AEs.  
Speaker 0    00:53:16    Your sounds a little funky. Do you still wanna raise your hand?  
Speaker 13    00:53:22    Can you hear me?  
Speaker 0    00:53:24    Yay. Now we can  
Speaker 13    00:53:28    Sean Z raised their hand before me.  
Speaker 0    00:53:32    Okay. Oh, thank you for catching that. Okay. Sean Z and then Juan.  
Speaker 14    00:53:37    Awesome. Thank you. I appreciate that. No. Yeah. I just, so it's been a super interesting conversation. I think that I know I've got a lot to say about it, but one thing that really is sticking out in my mind is whenever we're talking about trauma. And I think, I think it's important that we like recognize the things that happen to us. But I think that it's also equally important. If not more important that we recognize them only to let them go. Because I feel like if we make it a habit to take on this trauma and identify with it, then we become that trauma. And you can never escape that because you're, you're trying to escape something that you've made to be yourself. And I feel like if you can let it go, the trauma, then you start discovering these deeper parts of yourself that are beyond words.  
Speaker 14    00:54:35    So all these things like race, sexual orientation, where you're from, what you like, all of those things become topping on the cake and the cake is you, right? Like you are the bread and everything else is just like this icing that's on it. And, and whenever you come in contact with that part of yourself, that part of yourself, that's beyond trauma, beyond identification. It immediately affects the way that you treat every single other person that is a part of your experience. And I think that that, that one thing is the basis of, of what we are trying to do here, which is, you know, conflict resolution. But I think at its, at its basis is, is treating every single other person the way you would like to be treated. And I feel like once you can see yourself below all of these things that we use to identify ourselves, then you also see other people blue below all that too, which is just consciousness, which is just the, the, the building blocks of everything. And, and yeah, I don't know. I just want, I just really felt the need to share that here. And I really hope that resonated with at least somebody and yeah, that's it.  
Speaker 0    00:55:49    I appreciate you sharing for that. And I think in aiming to be able to connect with each other safely enough that we're not over, depending upon our trauma responses, we do need to be mindful of the systems that are already in place that we haven't eradicated yet. And so we're only really able to do that kind of connection that you're describing when we're safe enough to do so. So we do get to describe, or sorry, get to create safe enough where that kind of connection can be possible. So we don't wanna like bypass the work that's necessary to uproot the systems that make it, that we continually get activated in, in relationships with one another.  
Speaker 14    00:56:41    I, I get what you're saying. Although I feel like it's a lot easier than what we make it out to be, right? Because it, they say as soon as you shine light on your shadow, it's no longer your shadow, right? So as soon as you view it, as long as you don't hold onto it and say like, I need to get over this thing, then you immediately view it. And you view it as being something other than yourself. So you have no choice, but to move on from it because you recognize that that is not you. Right. And I think that's super important. And I think that it's a just important part of just your own development. And like I said, if, if you're acting from this basis, then everything that you'll be that you do will be, will be taken for exactly what you mean it to be. I dunno, but I'm, although I do have to jump guys, I really hate to cut this conversation short because it's really interesting, but I have another meeting to get to. Thanks everybody.  
Speaker 3    00:57:42    Yeah. Thanks Sean. Thanks Morgan. For me also, I learned a lot today because when I, when I thought of trauma, I only thought related to the experience that I lived in my life, but here we've thought a lot about collective trauma and the, the trauma that we inherit within our body system. So, so I, I really stay with that. Our communication in most part is nonverbal and that just sometimes smiling to someone can break the eyes and, and overcome some of that trauma barriers that we all face because just smiling to the other shows the empathy that you can connect with the trauma of, of the other person, recognizing that you also have trauma. And I see trauma as, as a back, as an invisible back to blue carry and it is as heavy and, and as big as, as, as we would want it to be, or as we feel comfortable with it.  
Speaker 3    00:59:07    So, yeah, I, I also would like to say that it's something that we have experience in one way or another. And sometimes we think that people who have experienced more sometimes is people in a minority, but also people who have been very privileged, they also have their trauma. So, so sometimes we, we, we tend to close and to say, what is trauma and what is that? But at the same time, as if we see it as something that we have within our heritage, just for being human, we can understand that yeah. That we are all sometime somehow affected and molded by the systems that we live in.  
Speaker 0    00:59:59    So I realized that I lost your hands in the offering feedback, but I know you're participating in the chat. I didn't know if you wanna put words to it.  
Speaker 13    01:00:13    I don't think I have the best service. I wrote something in the chat  
Speaker 0    01:00:23    So far. I'm hearing you okay. To try a little nugget that I'm thinking of from the last two points of feedback from Shauna, from one, if you all are interested, particularly in the collective impacts of particularly white body supremacy and colonialism, a really awesome author to pay attention to is resume men and their book, my grandmother's hands. And so something in Nicola ICU, something to consider is that a quote from him and I'm going to paraphrase. It is that oftentimes our transgenerational trauma and our lived experience in this particular flesh fact trauma becomes so hardwired that we identify with it as personality simultaneously collective trauma responses, like the flight and avoidance response of most white folks to racism or the disassociation from, or the submitting to the values that perpetuate white body supremacy and racism also become cultural values and become culture. And so we are so well suited to survive the systems of violence that have been around for generations and generations and generations is that a lot of times we don't got eyes on them.  
Speaker 0    01:01:58    We don't necessarily feel 'em and we assume them to be their personality or culture. So an invitation there is to consider like in my community where I'm at, what are the like cultural values that keep those patterns in place. That also means there's, you know, investment in taking a study as to what are the different patterns of violence that my space that I've grown up in or share community and continue to replicate. And a reminder that the more protected you are AKA, if you're white, you're cisgendered, particularly if you're male identifying, if you're well educated, if you've participated in the dominant religion around you, those are folks that have been able to move through the world through be able to bypass the impacts of violence more easily. And so we need to be really mindful around suggesting anything that bypasses and doesn't pay attention to the like real visceral lived experience of violence that continues to happen for those of us that are less protected by those of violence. So I also wanna that we're five minutes past, I'm chilled to hang out and continue talking. If you need to go many blessings for having been here. Thank you so, so much I tracking you and would love to know what you have to.  
Speaker 7    01:03:22    Thank you. Wow. Do you new wealth?  
Speaker 0    01:03:27    Yeah.  
Speaker 7    01:03:29    Cool. Thank you so much. I can high enough of like how much value I found in this one hour and everything that you've shared and all the reminders about really being connected to the body and learning how to read the trauma. I have a question that I wanna ask. It's more of a practical standpoint, but I also want to say that, and it's actually related to my question. I also noticed because I'm somebody very passionate about my own self growth and healing, and like really digging deep into the journey. And so learning how to feel these things myself and heal as I go. And I am so passionate about also, you know, mediating the conflict and being there for, for others as, as, as the guide, as how to go through the trigger, right. How to get on the other side. And so I noticed that because I'm so like first, first thing first, I really appreciate the authenticity.  
Speaker 7    01:04:44    And I wanna make sure that we all know that we are humans with, you know, learning nobody's higher. Nobody's like nobody is above anybody. We're all equal here and we are learning together. And when we acknowledge this, it happens that, you know, as you are facing somebody else's, let's say conflict, you re you notice your own reaction to it, your own trauma response to it. Right? And so my question comes when this happens and you, because for me also trauma is related. It sits in the body and it's, it's linked to emotion and some sort of emotion comes through and I'm, I see myself, very emotional person, and I can, I can, I can share the power and energy of my emotion very strongly, especially if I'm not aware of it. And I would like to like, know how to navigate, you know, when I notice my own trigger and there's a situation going on, what's the best outcome besides like, saying, Hey, let's take time out and take a deep breath together. And you know, like, yeah,  
Speaker 0    01:06:01    Thank you. And there's so many, so many nuances to that, right? Cause like we can imagine a situation where there's so many different identities at play time constraints, power dynamics. I do wanna like put a little like asterisks here. One, I believe that I saw that all wrote in that we're not post-colonialism by any means. Colonialism is definitely continuing to act. So I think in part, when we're having these conversations is to realize that we're trying to create opportunities for connection and peace while violence is still happening. So it's a really challenging job. And you already pointed out an incredible tool that we have is to be able to bring the body into our conversation, to be able to be, I don't know, an example could be like, when you said that, I noticed my body got really hot. I noticed if I'm hot, I'm not gonna be as present. I need to take a moment to be able to cool down  
Speaker 0    01:07:02    Or like, yo I'm noticing my own fight response here. That means that something's up, let's slow down and check it. What's your survival response that's going on right now? Can you name it? What's the pattern. So often our, our survival responses co act with one another, like my body's has a history of how to participate with somebody else's fight response. I also have a history of how to participate with somebody else's fond response or their freeze response. And so they're not only noticing what my response is, but what's my relationship to somebody else's survival response and kind of validate it because that's, what's kept them alive. But also how do I keep myself safe enough? And at a distance enough that I know that I can keep myself regulated. So it's all gonna change based off of like our positionalities, how they're swirling with one another and how well resourced you are in the moment. So I don't wanna give any like assigning conclusions except that in any relationship your body is so, so, so important returning to that 85% body communication to your brain, you're only gonna be able to perceive, communicate, talk, or I forgot another percentage. Did I say this? When you're in your survival response, you lose access to about 75 to of your structures. It goes all back here, you lose all that stuff up here.  
Speaker 0    01:08:23    So being able to pop in and out effectively keeps our brains and we all  
Speaker 7    01:08:34    Thank you so much.  
Speaker 0    01:08:37    There's also a really cool book called conflict is not abuse. So particularly for those of us that have in a very overt survivorship of abusive relational patterns, that is an incredibly helpful book. Conflict is not abuse, cuz we're gonna feel the same in conflict, even though it's not actually abusive. So there's like a really interesting discerning line. Alright, let's see. David and Ray, what you got  
Speaker 16    01:09:10    David, you wanna go first?  
Speaker 16    01:09:14    Okay, I'll go. I'll go. Thanks Morgan. For spending time with us and sharing space with us, it's been awesome. I have a point of curiosity. It's kind of building on something someone said around how things can feel foreign because we're so used to maybe being in spaces that are traumatizing. When we enter a space that is trauma sensitive and healing and it can be quite scary. And almost we have a, we, we have a, a response to kind of reject it. And I was wondering as someone who's interested in how we create more healing, trauma, sensitive spaces, how we might recognize that and support folks in general and these types of new ways of, of being and, and interacting with, with human beings.  
Speaker 0    01:10:15    Such a nice question. So good.  
Speaker 0    01:10:25    So two things, a normalizing that so like shifting from lack of safety to safety feels really fucking weird. It feels unsafe to go from lack of safety to safety. Your body's like, what is this? This is weird because you've become so familiarized to patterns of violence. So a like being really, really like normalizing of that. And also remembering trauma happens too much, too fast. So you get to dose it, dose yourself at the like titrating level that you can around being around safe folks for folks who are setting container and inviting folks in who might not have experience safe enough relationships or trauma sensitive enough relationships is to be really explicitly upfront about like how you're doing it. But it's not a mystery. We are creating an opportunity for the possibility of safety. Remember, like we can't assure safety because you never know if somebody's gonna feel safe or unsafe. You're creating the opportunity for like a brave space or a safe enough space to try on safety with each other and really lay out what you're doing to be able to like, be explicit. Like this is how we're creating safety. Do you need anything else to make sure that this space is safe to you? There's no mystery to it. It's not like there's a backdoor agenda. Like this is how we're creating, but you'll never know about it kind bullshit. So yeah.  
Speaker 4    01:11:53    I also wanna show the fact that we are engaging in practice sessions in the coming weeks of the Graviton training. So if you are a space convener, we're gonna be putting in good shit that you can throw down on and get some experience with  
Speaker 0    01:12:09    Maybe what you got.  
Speaker 17    01:12:12    Yeah. Awesome. I was really, I was just really impressed by your, your presentation. And most of my question is around how to learn more. Like in the beginning I was, I thought it was great how you set the stage and like made like acknowledged different pains and things. You just did it really well. And I I'm curious how I, as somebody who presents time topics at times can be, you know, maybe I wouldn't go all every single step that you laid out in the beginning, but a lot of it was like, really I thought was really great. How can I get? And also just in general, where to learn more. Like I went to the training study plan and I grabbed those links. I put 'em in our Gravity discord channel and about the grandmother's hands. So I got those resources. But if there's anything else that you can share that, that I, we can learn more, that would be appreciated.  
Speaker 0    01:13:25    Yeah. Yeah. Most definitely. So gonna hop into the chat here that I can type out some, some folks to follow and anybody else like this is not just on me. Right? Like I just got picked for today. We got a whole team representing. So anybody else that is, you know, doing some deep practice around inclusion, accessibility, non-violence, anti-colonialism like tos in your resources. Some folks that I deeply admire, Marie Brown, I got you. That's what I was just about to do.  
Speaker 4    01:14:08    Yeah.  
Speaker 0    01:14:10    So Adrian Marie Brown is an incredible black queer. Let's see if I can type and talk at the same time. Possibly not. Let me try.  
Speaker 0    01:14:27    Okay. So she started the emergent strategy series, which is a series of books as well as a training Institute. So she is a queer black doula, and I believe calls herself like a life doula. She's deeply committed to transformative and liberatory practices. And she's got incredible books. Like we will not cancel us emerge and strategy, pleasure activism. And this one for you, David, this is probably the most specific to your question is holding change is a book that she wrote in, in co-authorship that talks about the, like the procedural efforts that groups can go through to make sure they're checking themselves kind of at every layer to make sure they're creating space that is built around inclusion and like has different metrics in there for leaders to be able to be like, did I think of that? Oh shit. I didn't think of that. If I didn't think of that, then I might have caused time. Okay. Lemme think about that as I'm like designing this space. So that's a really helpful resource thinking about this on the fly will definitely be adding resources into the discord channel in regards to the body science stuff that I talked about. That is  
Speaker 0    01:15:48    Probably theory. So this is a little controversial cause it's, you know, a white guy from the seventies that set up this, this theory and also the explicitness to which we can understand the hard wiring of our body and what we are capable of and what kind of supports we need to be able to stay presence in our body. Polyvagal theory is incredibly helpful. Also mentioned, I believe I spelled that right. Somatic volition.  
Speaker 0    01:16:28    So yeah, he brings polyvagal theory into studies around how to interrupt and then, you know, disentangle from white body supremacy as folks of color and as white folks, cuz it's all of our jobs and that our bodies are the place and insight of the work to be able to create abolitionist and Liber abolitionists and liberatory systems. So he also has trainings. He also hasn't done his work around questioning misogyny and patriarchy really in his work. So that's a little questionable, he's got the race thing on point. So hold that folks who have been assigned female at birth or identify more as fem, it's a lot to navigate being in relationship with him. Alrighty. Is there anything else I'll probably in like two hours, I'll be like, I wish I would've said that. Oh thank you, Jeremy. Yes, God. Oh yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.  
Speaker 17    01:17:34    Thanks so much.  
Speaker 0    01:17:34    We can't bypass our biology. It's really like the base of all of this stuff. Like all these authors are really deeply grounded in, in being able to be like, we cannot disconnect ourselves from earth and we cannot disconnect ourselves from our body and we have a limited, but wildly in that expansive capacity, both at the same time. David, did you say something? I think I might have interrupted you.  
Speaker 17    01:17:59    Oh, I was just saying thanks for all the awesome resources. I copied all that over to our discord channels. So I, I definitely will be reviewing this material later, so thank you.  
Speaker 0    01:18:13    Cool. Cool. And then I'm working with some incredible teams folks up here in the Pacific Northwest and on the west coast, we are in the middle of starting up an organization called my movement network, ALO and I are starting to kick off building an app of practices that allow for like easy access to integration for all of the stuff that we talked about today. We're not totally up and running, but keep an eye out for that name. If you want to follow me on Instagram, which is kind of the platform I spend the most time on. If any, that you can get me there. And if you wanna shoot me an email might take me a little while to respond, but I swear I'll finally get to it. Nancy White doesn't ring a bell by name. What do they got? Jeremy,  
Speaker 4    01:19:11    She's an OG within the liberating structure scene. And I think you guys should fucking hang out. So  
Speaker 0    01:19:18    Make a happy captain I'm down.  
Speaker 4    01:19:21    That's what's up  
Speaker 0    01:19:24    And very open to continue to connect with you all. I'm so grateful for being a part of Gravity and there's a lot of work to be done to make sure that we create liberatory structures within the web free space because that's too much too fast thing too much too fast.  
Speaker 4    01:19:47    Thank you, Morgan. That was fire.  
Speaker 3    01:19:49    Thank you. Thanks everyone for your presence for your time. Thanks Morgan. For your facilitation. Yeah, it's it's too much too fast, but we also need to be just understanding that that's normal for, for all of us and yeah. Thank you. Thank you. And hope to see you next week. Next week, David will be leading the session and he will be talking about Nonviolent Communication. See you later. Thanks everyone. Awesome. Thank you. Bye. So. 
