Speaker 0    00:00:02    Okay. Perfect. And I'll make you  
Speaker 1    00:00:06    The host again.  
Speaker 0    00:00:14    Perfect.  
Speaker 1    00:00:17    Yeah. Okay. Share that screen. Oh wow. I had no idea that it would actually control the oh, okay. Just one moment while this is my first time doing a screen share on zoom. So I just gotta, okay. Everyone can hear me. Okay. Hopefully.  
Speaker 0    00:01:32    Yep.  
Speaker 1    00:01:36    Thanks everybody for coming. We still got people rolling in right now. Actually let me get my, let me drop the link for this presentation before we go too much further into our chat here. So folks at home can follow along at their own pace. I'll make sure that it make sure the sharing settings are on that so everybody can do it. But right now for the kind of opening exercise, we're gonna just explore a physical sensation, any physical sensation that you notice and you wanna share in the, in the chat here, that'll be a great way to get us prepared for this discussion. I'm looking for. I mean, physical sensation, I don't know if maybe peaceful is a, is a sensation, but if you can locate any sensation somewhere in your body, like right now, I'm, I'm feeling like right in my center. It's just maybe a little, there's some pressure and it feels a little squiggly. Is that a sensation? I don't know. I guess maybe, maybe it's a, it's not always easy for us to identify exactly what we're feeling and that's partly what this session is about. Yes. Is aching some food stuck in the teeth. So maybe there's some pressure there. Heaviness. Yes. And that maybe is more of a, there is a physical sensation to that. That's hard to describe.  
Speaker 1    00:04:54    Is, are people familiar with Nonviolent Communication? I I'm assuming that I know a lot of people in this crowd are, have some familiarity. We've done the book, the Nonviolent Communication book club, but we're gonna go through it real quick. And if you look in the, the presentation,  
Speaker 2    00:05:28    Sorry, sorry. I think there is some people in the waiting room.  
Speaker 1    00:05:33    Okay. Let me look. I didn't, I was getting the notifications about that, but I, I don't even, oh, maybe it's up here.  
Speaker 0    00:06:06    It's  
Speaker 1    00:06:09    Participants. Oh, oh yeah. There's a bunch of people waiting.  
Speaker 0    00:06:20    Yeah.  
Speaker 1    00:06:24    Okay. Hopefully everybody is finding their way in and now I can see, I can keep a better eye on that. It was telling me when people were waiting.  
Speaker 0    00:06:45    Hi everybody.  
Speaker 1    00:06:47    Hello? Hello. We were just exploring some physical sensations within our bodies and sharing in the chat just to kind of warm up the session in at the top of those notes at the top of the chat is a link to our presentation and I'm just going to mute everybody and you can unmute or raise your hand or whatever, if you wanna say anything. Okay. And as I was mentioning, if you look at the presentation slideshow in the notes underneath there, a lot of the slides have notes and links to more information to videos, audio, images, whatever that I happen to find along the way. So, so be sure to notice and take advantage of that to if you're trying to find out anything else, knitting more people. So  
Speaker 1    00:08:39    Marshall Rosenberg, Dr. Marshall Rosenberg, who came up with the Nonviolent Communication, it was his belief that violence and the planet was created by the way that we, and the way that we speak. And he created this process while as a product of the research that he embarked on to discover what makes people seem to what makes people, some people enjoy compassionate giving, and then what makes others seem to thrive on the suffering of others? So, you know, we're not gonna talk a lot about that, but just understand that that's where this all comes from. And there's a link to the last session I did on Nonviolent Communication here on this slide. And there's a ton of quotes that kind of break down the whole process. But I think we're gonna, I think we're gonna cover all the main points here. I think we'll cover all the main points here. Okay.  
Speaker 1    00:10:06    So yeah, Nonviolent Communication involves sharing what's going on with our feelings and our needs and how we feel in relation to those needs. That's what Dr. Rosenberg taught was that our feelings indicate whether our needs are met or whether they're UN unmet. So when they're met, we feel ful feelings. And when they're not met, we feel unpleasant feelings. So another part of online communication is once we've, you know, once we've connected with those needs, exactly what needs are relating to which feelings then we ask how others can help us ask other people like how they can help to meet those needs, or we share appreciation for that, how they have, and then we also wanna receive the same when something that we do, isn't contributing to the needs of someone that they can communicate with us. Hey, you know, like this is how I feel when X, Y, and Z happens, which interferes with my needs in area. Hey, can you, you know, would you be willing to do different to help me meet this need? Part of the problem is that we don't, that's not what we're trained and taught how to do. That's not. What we're we're used to doing is when I feel upset, I think like, oh, what a jerk that this person just was so rude to me, and I'm not thinking about what needs I have. I'm thinking about a specific strategy for meeting those needs. And  
Speaker 1    00:12:37    Yeah, and Nonviolent Communication is a core component of our Gravity, our whole Gravity foundation for Gravity. And they all, it all kind of revolves on a, on a spectrum from creating frameworks that support the kind of community that we wanna be able to have and having measures to, to, to address when things aren't going the way that we'd like, or when there's conflicts between individuals or situations where people aren't feeling, feeling so great. So couple important core aspects of non my communication is that the idea is to connect with ourselves in a way that promotes compassionate, giving, not judging what people are like, that person's a jerk. That person is, you know, so rude, but, or, but judging behavior based on how it meets our needs and avoiding enemy images, which kind of goes into that judging what people are. And we get just, it's hard to explain, but we get caught up in this feeling of just injustice or that it's so wrong, what the person did. And it's hard in that to just really see what is actually the problem. And it's not always immediate EV evident in the moment.  
Speaker 1    00:14:50    This is also part of, it's not a core component to today's session, but this is a big, important part to Nonviolent Communication. I think gets left out that the reason that we have this type of language, that judges what we are rather than how our behaviors met needs or how it's interfered with needs is that it helps to maintain domination structures. And so that we're always looking to authorities on whether we're right or wrong or good or bad. And this language identifies us as a certain type of person based on our behavior, our appearance, our intelligence, you know, the way we talk, the way we dress, we look and retributive justice judges, people is wrong, right or wrong, good or bad. And if you're judged is good, then you deserve to be rewarded. And if your judge is wrong, then you deserve to suffer. And this is how we, this is how we, it makes it easy for us to enjoy making other people suffer, because if we judge them as bad, then we can, we can attack them all we want and we're feel like the good guy. So yeah, Nonviolent Communication focuses on what's happening to our needs.  
Speaker 1    00:16:40    And you know, another thing about the judging, what people are, is it also goes not just on the negative judgements, but also the positive judgements of you are great. Oh, you're awesome. That'll tie together when we get to gratitude in non communication, but that's like, that's all tied in together with this objectification and, you know, judging what people are for, you know, deciding who gets punished or who gets rewarded. And just wanna want to add that in there. So it's the premise of non violent communication. The conflicts can be resolved rather easily. Once we get past our judgements and recognizes the humanity of the other person that we're connecting with and, and Jeremiah research, you know, the, of common,  
Speaker 1    00:18:15    The common framework for non violent communication is observations, feelings, needs, and requests O O N F R O FNR. If you're no non communication, if you're familiar, you've seen this O FN R before, but I thought it makes sense to add thet onto that Marshall added, he had a big section on gratitude in his workshops. He did a whole, so I'm, you know, it's not that he neglected this, but it just wasn't integrated with this part of it. The, the acronym OFN R observation feelings needs requests. And thanks because, you know, first we're, it's all about observations, feelings and needs, and whether those needs are met, then we can give thanks. And when those needs are not met, then we can make clear requests tying, tying in our needs and our feelings and the observation. And as someone who has studied Nonviolent Communication for like four years, I can say that all of this is really not super easy. It sounds kind of simple. It's kind of allowed to wrap your head around, at least if you're me. And so that's kind of what we wanna do this session is to get more familiar with, with the feelings and the needs.  
Speaker 1    00:20:04    And this is a nice  
Speaker 1    00:20:09    Cuz observations were, were looking for straightforward facts, not our evaluation of the behavior, not our judgment of what they are based on the thing that they did and our needs are gonna tie to universal human needs. We're not looking to blame. We're not, we're not trying to enforce people to fulfill our expectations. It's a beautiful framework and there's a lot of moving parts to it. So it's hard to kind of get all in all in one place. So in a second, we're gonna go over a list of feelings and needs and try to get more familiar with them in our own language in ways that we can relate in a language that we would use in everyday conversation. But first I wanna just pause. I just spit out a lot of words and you know, I'd like to take a little break and hear if anybody has any thoughts or questions they wanna put out. We can take a few minutes for brief thoughts or reflections, and you can, I'm looking for the yes. Wonka. You can, you can unmute.  
Speaker 2    00:22:12    Yeah. Also Chancy was raising the hand, but I love this topic. And I wanted to say two things. One is about a book of jam, Paul Sarre that is called closed door. And it's a play of people in hell. And they are facing an uncomfortable position, but as they are dead, they cannot change. And John Paul says that what distincts living from dead people is the capacity of changing. And when you say that some person is X, you are giving them like a fixed role and you are not allowing them to change. So when you stop objectifying people, you start allowing them to change. So if you want something, someone to change instead of DAO, instead of telling them what you judge that they are, because that only perpetuates that behavior and fits your ego with the I, I was right. Try focusing on what do you want and what can you do to meet your needs? Based on the, on the process that then is, is, is explaining where you don't focus on your perception or on the other, but you focus on what can you do to, to enrich life and meet needs of the people who is participating.  
Speaker 3    00:24:02    Yeah. That's beautiful. Can you guys hear me?  
Speaker 1    00:24:10    Yeah, yeah. Go ahead. And then after you're you're done talking guy, you can just unmute sh Z when you're, when he's done and, and go after that.  
Speaker 3    00:24:26    Okay, cool. Yeah. I just think it's, it's interesting the way it's being described. I haven't heard NBC correlated with retributive justice like that before, but that, that makes a lot of sense. And the notion of just tying into this human impulse of like us versus them, like I've heard studies where they divide people just totally arbitrarily by like, who likes country music, or what color are your eyes or whatever. And very quickly people will just start talking shit about the other side, basically. And so there is that impulse, but there's also, I think by focusing on one's own needs, it's also recognizing like these are universal human needs and only do I feel them by myself, but other people feel them in themselves as well. And that very much pushes one into the direction of empathy. So, yeah. Thanks for explaining it that way. That was really useful for me.  
Speaker 4    00:25:24    That's a, that's really great point. I appreciate you guys letting me get up here and speak, but no, I dunno. When, so when we talk about needs, something that comes to my mind, like immediately is like, like how do we know what our needs are? Like? I mean, I think we all think we know what our needs are, but I think that sometimes, you know, you, you kind of lose sight of the forest from the trees. You know what I mean? And with that being said, I think it's really important to recognize that because sometimes we don't actually know what is best for us, that when we are presented with that thing, that is actually what we need. Sometimes that can make us feel very negative. You know, we can get very uncomfortable, we can get even angry because this is what we do. This is who we are.  
Speaker 4    00:26:22    Right. And I think that for all of this to really hold, you have to like, meet that place in yourself that know like knows that you really don't know anything and to be humble to any kind of opinions and example that I'm gonna use for, this is my very best friend. We've been friends for about six or seven years now. He has a way of telling me that I am just absolutely messing up and that like, Hey, you should try it this way. And I may not like it when he says it, but once I do it, I'm like, you know what, you're right. You know? And I think, I don't know, it's, like I said, we're just talking about feelings and needs. And I think that part of that is just, I said, staying humble to the fact that we really don't know what we need, because we really don't know like who we are. You know? I mean, I think Alan Watts says, you know, you can't bite your own teeth, you know, and yeah. I was just thought that I had, thank you.  
Speaker 1    00:27:25    Yes, absolutely. I, as years go on and the more I learn, it's definitely, you know, I can see how most of my life I've gone through with this sort of illusion that I disillusion of being a free actor in the world, choosing what I wanted on doing what I wanted, not what, you know, but we're, you know, we're all like a kind of big jumble of complexes where we're reacting to some emotions that we have stored up and all sorts of different reactions. And it's just, it is really like our, we're like a big puzzle. I, it's hard to, it's hard to realize like each time I feel like, oh, wow, I have some more awareness of the world. And then a couple years later, I'm just like, oh yeah, I didn't know anything, what I was talking about, even so, so much, so much for all that.  
Speaker 4    00:28:42    If I, if I may say one more, one more thing and I'm, I'll, I'll mute. But one of the best pieces of advice I've ever gotten is that if something is triggering you, that's where your work lies. Simple as that.  
Speaker 1    00:28:55    Yeah. And I, and I definitely recognize that a lot of times when I'm getting upset by something that somebody else does, that that's something about myself that I really don't want to examine that ties into shadow work, which is definitely an important subject that Gravity deals with. But we're not gonna get too much deeper into that today, unless anybody, I didn't see any other hands up, does anybody wanna just unmute? And  
Speaker 2    00:29:30    There was a question in the chat of what do we do when we are the ones being judged to be X?  
Speaker 1    00:29:40    Oh, well, you know, that's tough. And I don't, you know, I think, well, Nonviolent Communication does help us with that because when in that moment, when we're being judged, we can look to the other person in our imagination and we can, we can imagine what they might be feeling and what they, what needs of theirs might be interfered with whether by our action or not. And then, I mean, it doesn't eliminate the pain of the judgment and the reaction from the other person, but it definitely, you know, at least adds some perspective. And perhaps through that, you could, you could look and find a solution by really considering what the other person's needs are. Maybe they're not reacting in a healthy way, but if you figure out what their needs are and you can meet their needs, then you might very well, or you can help towards that end. Then there's certain, certainly a chance that, you know, maybe you could change their behavior through focusing on the needs. Yeah. So let's go, let's go onto that. And we're gonna take 10 minutes or so, and we're gonna go through this. There's three pages of feelings when needs are met feelings with unmet needs and universal human,  
Speaker 1    00:31:40    Two pages of feelings, one pages of needs. And I don't know if maybe, yeah, I think we don't need to, we don't need to talk, but we can each we can take, or I can even just read them aloud. But I would like for each of the feelings to, for you to consider, even if it's not one of the feelings listed or the versions of the word, that, what, what kind of word would, would match for you in that situation?  
Speaker 1    00:32:30    We have start with the feelings when needs are met. Cause those are the fun ones. We have exhilarated enthralled, exuberant, giddy, silly, slap happy. And yes, you can see, these are not all sensations. When I, like when I started in the beginning of the session, I wanted us to focus on, I wanted to narrow the focus as tightly as possible, because usually when we say, I feel people start up the sentence I feel, and then they go on to describe their thoughts on the matter I feel that you just don't understand what I'm talking about. No, that's a thought that's not a feeling. So we're not quite that strict on as far as only naming specific sensations, but getting to name and understand what sensations are happening in our body. When we're having these feelings is, is important. Maybe not specifically Nonviolent Communication, but it's definitely part of our, our literacy in feelings and needs excited alive, which also can be expressed as alive, amazed, animated, eager, energetic, enthusiastic invigorated, lively, passionate inspired, also expressed as amazed, astonished, odd dazzled, radiant RD surprised, thrilled, uplifted, joyful, which may also be expressed as a buoyant, delighted, elated, glad gleeful, overjoyed, pleased, radiant.  
Speaker 1    00:34:46    And yes, these are not all expressing exactly the same feeling and they will fit in different circumstances, but we're trying to expand greatly beyond the, the norm from, Hey, how are you? Oh, I'm doing all right. Or I'm good. I'm bad. You know, I haven't my, most of my life been very used to thinking in terms of all, all these different descriptive words for feelings, but it's exactly this kind of inquiry into what we're feeling exactly and not what we're just thinking about a situation, but how we're feeling in our bodies of that's. That's gonna bring us closer to connecting with other people as people and not just reacting, not just blindly reacting from the sensation, curious, adventurous alert, interested, intrigued inquisitive, fascinated, spell bound stimulated. So I know not everybody's sitting at a computer or has a pen and paper nearby, but I do hope that here taking some of this time to specify some, some feeling words that you connect with and that you you'll have better access to in the moment when usually when something's going wrong is when we need to have the closest attention to what we're feeling. But it's  
Speaker 1    00:36:52    Just as important. I would say to connect with the, the feelings of whom our needs are met, does volunteer to, to read some of these feeling words, or maybe even just choose one from each, each row and read them off.  
Speaker 5    00:37:40    Yeah. I'll throw it down with you, Dave.  
Speaker 1    00:37:43    Yeah, that'd be great. Just cause I think, you know, most times, and the reason why I'm doing this is because the most times that I have been in Nonviolent Communication trainings or workshops or whatever, we kind of breeze by this feeling section, you see a big chart of all the feelings and then it's sort of like, I'll get around to that someday. So that's today.  
Speaker 5    00:38:10    Cool. So should I just start at confident or relaxed? Where's relaxed.  
Speaker 1    00:38:17    Yeah.  
Speaker 5    00:38:18    Relaxed at ease, carefree, comfortable, open anybody else?  
Speaker 0    00:38:34    Yeah. Why  
Speaker 6    00:38:34    Not? Can you hear me  
Speaker 1    00:38:41    Go right ahead? Curious,  
Speaker 6    00:38:43    Curious, adventurous alert, interested. I don't know how to read intrigued. Inquisitive, fascinated, spellbound. This windowed. I can keep going if you want.  
Speaker 1    00:39:07    Sure.  
Speaker 6    00:39:09    Confident, empowered, proud. Save secure self assured, engaged, absorbed, alert, curious, engrossed, enchanted, and trans involved. For sure. I'm feeling involved right now. Hopeful. Expectant encouraged, optimistic, grateful, appreciated it. Moved. Thankful. Touched if use it if use it.  
Speaker 1    00:39:51    Yeah.  
Speaker 6    00:39:52    Refreshed. And my screen is broken at this part of the screen so I can keep you right now.  
Speaker 3    00:40:01    I, I can take over if you want. I'll read a liner to you. Sure. Refreshed enliven rejuvenated, renewed, rested, restored, revived, and energetic. Someone else wanna go from  
Speaker 1    00:40:15    Tell ended up.  
Speaker 7    00:40:17    I could. I could. I could go.  
Speaker 1    00:40:19    Yeah.  
Speaker 3    00:40:19    Cool.  
Speaker 7    00:40:21    So affectionate, compassionate, friendly, loving open-hearted sympathetic tender, trusting, warm, peaceful, peaceful, calm, centered, clear headed. Mellow, quiet serene Tran. So yeah. Any other person person wanna head in? Cause I feel really tranquil right now.  
Speaker 1    00:40:58    I I'll close up this page with relieved complacent, composed pool, trusting, collected, feeling collected right now that wasn't, that's a bonus word. It wasn't on the list. Content glad cheerful, fulfilled and satisfied. That's great. I'm glad we got to spend so much time with these feelings when our needs are met. Cuz I think we don't spend enough time with them. That's that's my suspicion feelings with unmet needs. We might even be more familiar with hostile antagonistic cold contempt, disgusted dislike, hate horrified, repulsed, scorn vengeful. Yes. And these, these feelings can be very easily used to encourage us towards,  
Speaker 1    00:42:14    Towards that type of behavior that's judging and, and punishing and all that annoyed aggravated bitter cranky, cross dismayed, disgruntled displeased, exasperated, frustrated, upset, agitated, alarmed, disturbed rattled, restless, troubled turmoiled uncomfortable, uneasy, unsettled, tense, anxious, distressed, fidgety, frazzled, irritable, jittery, nervous, overwhelmed, restless, stressed. And you can see as compared with like the top line, hostile feelings are sort of pointed at other people, hostile, angry, annoyed, upset. And as you go down, they're less personal. They're more personal to us and what we're experiencing. And that's more what, you know, we're gonna feel those. We're gonna feel those feelings of anger and hostility and annoyance with people.  
Speaker 1    00:43:43    And those are sort of like our gateway feelings into, you know, more neutral things that we're feeling in relation or yeah. So less personal ones can help getting in touch with these less these feelings that aren't as directed at other people can help us to, to break free of the enemy images and the, you know, the change, our focus more to the, to the needs and not on what we don't like about the other person confuse ambivalent, baffled, dazed flustered, hesitant, lost perplexed, puzzled, skeptical, torn, embarrassed, ashamed, contr guilty disgraced, humiliated, mortified regretful. Self-conscious. These are some more gateway feelings that could maybe help us get closer in touch with the, the needs. Longing envious, jealous, nostalgic hiding wistful yearning, tired, beat burnout, depleted exhausted, fatigued, lethargic, listless, sleepy, weary, worn out disconnected, alienated aloof apathetic, bored, distant, distracted, lethargic, lonely and numb, sad blue depressed dejected, disappointed, discouraged downcast, downhearted grief, hopeless, shocked, appalled, disbelief, dismay, horrified, mystified, startled, surprised pain, agony, anguish, bereaved devastated, heartbroken, hurt MSBR and wretched. All of those feelings are indication that we have some unmet needs on meth needs. And so, and we should use those feelings as a reminder that oh, some need of mine isn't met. And does somebody wanna volunteer to read out the, the, from the universal human needs  
Speaker 5    00:46:38    List? Oh, I definitely wanna start with connection. Can, can I, I saw you wanna jump intosa you wanna rock paper scissors on this?  
Speaker 8    00:46:46    No, you can go ahead. You got it.  
Speaker 5    00:46:48    All right. Connection is my motherfucking jam. If you goes the middle. So connection, acceptance affection. There we go. Appreciation belonging care. Another one. One of the greatest hits, greatest feeling ever. Cooperation, communication, closeness, community, compassion, inclusion, safety, security, stability, support, trust and warmth.  
Speaker 8    00:47:19    That's right. I'll in now. Wellbeing. Air food movement, exercise, rest, sleep, safety shelter, touch water, honesty, authenticity, integrity presence. Ooh, this is gonna be fun. Play joy, humor, recreation, dance, physical expression, rough housing. We need more rough housing. That was great.  
Speaker 1    00:47:59    Yeah, we don't. I actually added rough housing to the list because I felt like it was kind of missing Wonka. You wanna jump in here?  
Speaker 2    00:48:11    Yeah. I just wanted to compliment that sometimes when we think of, of wellbeing and on human needs, one of the main ones is like the financial need, but that's something that we've been talking about in multiple of our sessions that there are multiple ways of that a human can experience wealth. So there's the financial wealth, but there's also the physical wealth. There's also the social wealth. So, so in this wellbeing, it really resonated with, with me that some of these definitions of wellbeing or needs for wellbeing are, are more human than, than economical. And we sometimes think that the needs of people are only economical.  
Speaker 1    00:49:09    Yeah. And then that's exactly right. In a Nonviolent Communication, money is not a need. It's a strategy. You know, your need might be security, shelter food, but the, the, your strategy in that moment is, oh, I need some money. And so that, you know, it does encourage creativity in considering our problems as bigger than just what the strategy that first comes to mind or when somebody interferes with one of our strategies to open our mind a bit to consider, well, what do I really need here? And how can I work with this person so that both of our needs can be met. I don't see any other hands up. Oh, again, you wanna come back in and on honesty or no on peace.  
Speaker 3    00:50:17    Yep. So peace, beauty, communion, ease equality, harmony inspiration, and order autonomy, choice, freedom, independence, space, and spontaneity. And then I'll leave meaning for someone else.  
Speaker 1    00:50:38    If you're one of the hand raisers, you can jump in. I don't, I don't know why I don't see it in my list.  
Speaker 7    00:50:44    I could take meaning, meaning awareness, challenge, clarity, consciousness, contribution, creativity, discovery, efficacy, growth, hope learning, morning participation, purpose self-expression stimulation and understanding.  
Speaker 1    00:51:14    Absolutely. And I don't know if somebody read autonomy and I was just scrolling through my list, looking for hand raises, but autonomy is a important one to consider. And a lot of times we just wanna keep in mind that our strategy, our strategies for meeting our needs can interfere with somebody else's autonomy. If we're not, if we're not really open to finding a different way than just this one way that we've thought to do it. So that's awesome. Thanks everybody for, for helping out with the readings. And hopefully at least somebody in this group has a list of feelings and needs in their own of their own that they can use. I I'm, I'm gonna do this after this session and get my words like I've been meaning to for the last three years.  
Speaker 1    00:52:16    Ah, so now we are to, it's almost over, but now we're to the main point of this session is expressing gratitude in Nonviolent Communication, which this slide that I'm on right now, there's a direct link to the place in a direct link to Marshall Rosenberg talking about how to express and receive gratitude. So if you feel like you wanna listen to that later, please just be aware that it's there. And as we've already covered a number of times, gratitude in non violent communication involves observing what action enriched our life. Not just like you make me feel great, but you know, the way you talk to me, you know, I feel really supported with your, your language and that, and I feel great about that. So it can feel a little stilted, like getting all the pieces into place, but, but it's, it, it's a lot more satisfying for the other person than just to be told. You're great. But then when you tell them specifically what needs were met, what how you feel, and they know why they're awesome. Exactly. Because they're because they know your need was met by something that they did. So there's some exercises this isn't really meant for us to do, but just for us to consider for the future, or you can try this at home, think of a gratitude that you would've loved to receive, but didn't practice how it would be expressed as observation feeling and need. And then, then imagine telling them about this exercise and why, and ask them why they didn't share. Thanks.  
Speaker 1    00:54:27    And then similarly, think of a gratitude that you haven't expressed, but would like to think of the reasons why you haven't expressed a gratitude and then write it down in a Nonviolent Communication way and then hear in the links for this slide. This is a giraffe gratitude journal. And there's on this on the second page is a journal. When I remember, I feel because it contributes to my need for, and it there's. So, so if it makes it easier for you, you might like this journal that Kate Rahan made in 2018, and there's other, there's a whole session that Marshall did on gratitude also linked there. And then just to wrap things up kind of thing. I thought that would be, oh yes. Wonka.  
Speaker 2    00:55:45    Yeah. Just before jumping into that, this last section, I think you went over really fast of this slight access difficulties receiving gratitude. I think that think it's worth talking about we, we all sometimes struggle to receive gratitude.  
Speaker 1    00:56:06    Absolutely. You're right. And I, I, and everybody, obviously, if you have somewhere to go at three, don't be, don't feel bad. You know, you things start sticking around and anybody who wants to stay, I don't anything immediately after this. So you can feel welcome to hang around and we can continue on this. But yes, absolutely. That was a big, a big part of that session. Nine in the workshop, the training workshop that Marshall taught was that a lot of times we don't, you know, people want to downplay what good they did or they feel like, oh, this is just something that it was my duty or that was like some obligation that they had. And that's, I thought I took notes on that actually, but there that's a big, important part of Nonviolent Communication too, is that, you know, you don't have to do anything and we're not, we don't want to think of, we don't wanna think of obligations because that's one way that people can, they don't, they feel like they don't have any choice. That's how a lot of unjust and horrible things happen in the world because they're following orders or just doing their job. But now my communication wants us to remember our freedom and our choice in every circumstance.  
Speaker 1    00:57:56    And so we wanna avoid that type of, kind of, it's sort of like a false humility where we don't, it's, it's important to receive, to receive gratitude and praise. And the, you know, the simplest thing is just to say, thank you, you know, that's, I appreciate you sharing that. If it, even if it's uncomfortable, it's better than denying someone's praise, which maybe was hard for them to share in the first place. Yeah. So if you have been around the token engineering commons with Gravity for a while, then you probably know how to do praise, but if you haven't, you can go to the praise channel on our discord server and type slash back slash activate, and then you can use the praise command there. And my, well, we, we did this a while ago and it was at first my thought of trying to add the feeling and the need to every time we praise. But I think it's maybe simpler just to add the need, what need was met, because I think that can add a lot and is not too much extra work while we're in the middle of a praise to think of what need was met by the action that we're, that we're praising.  
Speaker 1    00:59:29    And with that, I just wanna open for any discussion questions, comments. Yeah. Thanks everybody for not fleeing to the channel. The moment that three came,  
Speaker 2    00:59:59    I also went to go a little bit deeper on this last TC praise invitation. And I sent the discord link for the TC and there we have this school thing that is called the praise system where when you praise other people after some time that praise turns into our token, the token of our project. And then we distribute tokens as a reward for the people who received praise, rewarding their contribution. So if you haven't, if you're not familiar to the TC, the first thing you have to do is to join into the discord server and feel the, the, some of the things for so that we can know that you're human. And then below the community section, there's the first text channel is called praise. And if you haven't pre praised before the first thing would be to write slash activate, and then you link your meta mask account to the, to the praise system. And then you, you use the slash praise command and you then right, the handle of the people that you want to praise, and the reason why for they are receiving the, that praise.  
Speaker 1    01:01:39    Thank you for, for sharing that extra explanation. I kinda assumed everybody would know about our, our ways, but that's, that's very good. Thank you, Waka. UHA you had your hand up, do you wanna share something or  
Speaker 8    01:02:00    I do. I did not know that I needed this session today. I did not know what to expect. I did not know what you were going to. I mean, I had an idea cuz you know, we had the documentation, but when I first came I was kind of sluggish and tired and worn out and feeling a little bit of pain in my body. And even in the beginning, when you said, you know, to kind of focus in and feel what you're feeling, I'm like, yeah, I'm not doing that. But being here in this space and listening to everyone read, I just, something connected inside of me and I feel more grounded to myself to this space and I feel more energized. I don't have the pain in my body anymore and it was just what I needed. And so I wanted to say thank you for showing up today and for teaching and for allowing us just to be, cuz that's what I needed to just be. And it being, I was able to receive what I needed. Thank you.  
Speaker 1    01:03:16    Well, that's, that's so awesome contest. I feel, I feel really great hearing that feedback and I did notice that in the beginning you didn't have the camera on, like I seen your smiling face the last couple times, like bright eye bushy tail, but then like, while we got into the feelings and needs you, you seemed to perk up. So I'm glad, I'm glad for that. Definitely.  
Speaker 8    01:03:42    Thank you,  
Speaker 1    01:03:46    Nicola. You have your hand.  
Speaker 6    01:03:52    Yes. Thank you. I just wanna say big, big, big, thank you. Feeling really grateful for today's session. You know, when I was coming in all that I had connected with Nonviolent Communication was this way of talking like what's a life in you. What's a life in me. Like identifying, identifying how, like how I'm feeling like. And I just really appreciate so much bringing feelings and emotions and to do feel of consideration because it really, you know, matters how we feel right. And we do want to feel good in our bodies and in our lives and we want to follow, follow the good feeling. And I think it's really important to know how to connect with the sensations and feelings and, you know, allow them also to be experienced and, and then work with all the great tools. And I just wanna praise every single speaker that, you know, every single lesson so far, it's amazing. I'm enjoying this training. So, so, so much. And I have a question of topic, but related with the, with the training I noticed in the Cal that there is a conflict resolution in DAO session in your Cal guys it's for Thursday. And I'm curious what it is and if I can join and listen in, maybe if you'll be practically using some tools or what it's  
Speaker 1    01:05:22    Thank you.  
Speaker 2    01:05:23    I can, I can answer that. And yeah, that session on the 16th was an invitation from the met game community there having the meta fam events during this week. And we will have a presentation of 30 minutes this Thursday also next week, it will be my session. And I am really happy that we have had all of these previous topics to gain momentum to, to my session and to, because I am going to try to wrap everything that we have been talking about in the past sessions and try to make it like really practical into why all of these topics that we have been talking about are key for people who want to actually facilitate or mediate in conflicts. And yeah, if, if you would like to participate on this Thursday call, I will be talking more, less on some similar things, but each of the sessions has like its own single singularity. So if you want to, to come to this Thursday session, it's cool. But also on next Tuesday I will be leading the session and, and my session will be really, really focused on how to put in practice all what we have been talking about in the situation of you being a third, a positive third side in, in a conflict between between people.  
Speaker 1    01:07:08    Awesome. Yeah. Thank you. I'm definitely looking forward to that. Sorry. Anybody who is writing in the chat? I wasn't able to, to stay with that while I was leading, but I am gonna save this and we'll see. Maybe there's some good stuff we can bring over to our  
Speaker 2    01:07:41    Is her hand  
Speaker 1    01:07:44    Absolutely jump right in  
Speaker 9    01:07:48    There. I just wanted to add an accessibility thing for Juan cuz of the manifest two event that he'll be streaming from. I wanted to say that it live streams from YouTube. So when it comes time to like share the link, just sharing the live stream will be the easiest way to like track down and find where that's happening. That's it. I just wanted to pass that along to one. And thank you for today. I loved, I loved the feelings. That's that's like a home run for me. I think like a year ago I had, I had this thing where at the end of the day I was like, it was like, no matter what, at the end of the day, because stuff does happen every single day just ended up being like a bad day was like, you know, it could be like good mediocre bad.  
Speaker 9    01:08:39    But if things happened, it usually fell in like, oh, that today was a bad day. And it reminded me of, I guess like fast food, small, medium, large how small, medium and large like changed over time. And like I was thinking that that's how my emotions were that there was something I was doing where I wasn't like, I wasn't actually aware of my emotions. I think that's what it was is that I didn't actually know how I felt at the end of the day. I wasn't taking the time to like articulate it cuz then I could be like, oh, you know today with like really frustrating day, I don't have to say it's a bad day. Today was a frustrating day. So yeah, a year ago I like built out my vocabulary for emotions because I felt like it was really small. So today's thing going through and taking the time to go through the different feelings or whatever, and being exposed to those words, like, you know, outta sight outta mind, you don't really think about all the other emotions that you could be, but if they are in the front of your mind, it's a little bit easier to get to those places or at least that's what I've noticed from that exercise.  
Speaker 9    01:09:40    So thank you for  
Speaker 1    01:09:41    Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, the feelings and all the variety of them are not always like super accessible. And that was definitely the reason why I wanted to go through that list today and really take the time. Even though it ate up a lot of our session, I feel like it was worth it. So thanks everybody. I'm glad you your feedback. Let me know that you know that it was my, my intention. That's why that's what, that's one of the things that Marshall says that it's not just important that we're working with the intention to serve life, but we need, we need feedback to know for certain that we have. And that's what is so important about gratitude, Abby, you have your hands up a Abba, sorry, jump right in  
Speaker 10    01:10:42    Everyone. I'm also quite, you know, feeling our mood of gratitude and also like would say discovered how mellow would fit and say like, feeling like a breeze I could say then like as if we were on a, some peaceful hill and could feel the wind as if there were no trees around that. Yeah. That are too much to block or something to that flow. So like with this one I felt like, Hey, overall, like lots of feelings, there are many ver versions to express a feeling and there are not like so different expressed in levels. Like so many comes back to a few categories, but yet inside there's a, some, some equal feeling like each happen to feel similar. I don't know what's that about the words or magic or feelings or like the magic around the feelings. But  
Speaker 10    01:12:31    Yeah, I, I think I, I should have really use praise system, for example, for a long time. And by coincidence I did that like last week, Hey, like why I am not doing it. Yes. But I knew what was stopping me. So I want to share like, Hey, that thing, like when something right, you, you wanna make it, but there is a time that's been that stopping you somehow. But when you realize it shouldn't, then it's all opening up that thing. Like, doesn't matter like this one, just one thing I want to say, like it's never too early or too late for something good. You know, you can do any time. That's like never early or late. Like lot of people are missing because they feel it's early. Like small hand could matter a lot, but yeah. I don't know how that all relates, but have a nice, even on things for this one. Thank you boss. And  
Speaker 1    01:14:11    If anybody wants to unmute and jump in, announce your chance, or we're gonna drop out here pretty shortly.  
Speaker 5    01:14:23    All right. I'll tee. I have let's. So I notice, I notice a sense of discomfort. Like some agitation, like anxiety around the, the, the possibility of, of expressing needs. And it feels like a, a sort of mind field. Right? I can, I can totally get behind like observation and inference. Right. So, you know, how am I feeling? What's the impact? What's the meaning of this, what I notice and what I sense. And then when I'm sort of pressed with, and then express a need, there's so much yeah, Jesus Christ. This is so much that can go bad. There I'm a big fan actually of expressing desire. Right. And saying what you want clearly. And unambiguously, if there's something in particular about like the, the like slippery slope that is like, oh, because I need this, I can be a Dick about it for lack of a better word.  
Speaker 1    01:15:55    Yeah. Yeah. Needs are well for one thing. And this is something Marsha talked about a bunch is that we're needs are taught. We're taught like needs are like a bad thing. Like, oh, like that's, you're being needy. And yes, like someone framing, they can, someone can easily frame their strategy as a need. And then try to use that as leverage into an obligation. And it's sort of tough to, you know, if you're in a relationship or if you're, you know, involved in a community where that type of thing is happening, you know, it's hard to know entirely, you know, or even it can happen. We can express, we can express these things as sort of like in a,  
Speaker 1    01:16:58    If we're not being conscious about the way we connect with others and the way that we meet our needs, it, we could, any of us could slip into this, this sense of like obligation around our needs. But we're, we're trying to kind of open up the sense of needs as their universal, their human, the universal components to humanity. And that, you know, everybody's everybody's needs can be met. You know, if we're open to, you know, to more than just our specific strategies or the flexibility around our strategies. And I don't, I'm not saying it's easy or any of this isn't easy necessarily, but it's definitely worthwhile.  
Speaker 2    01:18:12    I, I also want to compliment that sometimes we have valid needs and we have, I identified well, our feelings and our needs, but then when we try to express a request, we end up expressing a demand. And that also affects the communication process because maybe you can have valid needs, but if you make a demand, instead of a request, the other person would feel like an imposition and does, will trigger defense mechanisms towards your needs. And that could be worked out. If we also think on the way that we are making our requests. I think that in the book, Marshall says that one of the things that you can use to identify when you are making a request and when you are making a demand is when you would be able or, or in the position of making that request. Sometimes we demand to, we make a request to others of things that we wouldn't be able to deliver. And, and that turns our, our intention into a demand. Please feel free to talk.  
Speaker 11    01:19:49    Hi, I want to share something. It it's needed to be said that when we have a request, the other person isn't obligated. I don't know. How do you pronounce it?  
Speaker 1    01:20:07    Complicated. Yes. Yeah,  
Speaker 11    01:20:09    Yeah. They don't have to fulfill your need, but so we need to be ready that if we ask for something, we don't have to yeah. The other person isn't like always going to do it, even if we need it. So there's an, that's another thing that we could react strongly about. I already ask it. So what's going on, but there's a next step where it's not always fulfill our petition. And I also want to comment that as human beings in human global rights, we should have some needs that should be obligated to be fulfilled for others. And we don't have that culture, but we should have obligation to feed someone, to shelter, someone, to give peace to someone. So I think that in culture, we need to develop further into direct direction because it's unbelievable. Unbelievable what we live as a human kind in the whole world.  
Speaker 1    01:21:48    Yeah. Yeah. And that was, that was on your first part kind of ties into the idea of strategies that a lot of times what we ask somebody, we're asking what our request is, a strategy, a specific strategy for meeting our need. And you're right. Nobody's obligated to meet our needs, but moreover, sometimes we're just asking a specific way to meet our need, but even then no one is obligated. It's more, you know, I guess once we're 18 or, or 21 or whatever, then we're our, it's our responsibility to meet our own needs. But I, but also we are right. This is tied in with Marshall's presentation of NBC that, and I don't have the, I don't know, I don't have the information right on me, but the, I should have added this to the, to the session about the, the anyways you're totally right. I just, I, I can't recall, but there's, but part of the research around this involves the intention towards judging an economy based on human needs rather than, you know, rich people getting richer have us,  
Speaker 10    01:23:27    Oh, actually that's been some focal point in my works or maybe also sort of revelation, but still exploring that I'm expression and effective expression of demand. And, well, let's say it's a request, but in a context, maybe producer, consumer, it's more likely you, you have the chance to demand stuff. Or if you're a resident or a citizen, whatever you got that chance to say, it's a demand because that's a entity you are appealing to, it's not a person that's gonna have feelings and stuff. That's like, you expect something legit. So that could go demand. But I would love to, I don't know, approach you if I can in any way and explore how the expression of peace can be, which I kind of kept its role, the research, but it's got some constant where people can say like what we do in the praise and imagine like everyone, praise everyone.  
Speaker 10    01:24:49    I always felt like, Hey, like I should be able to praise the whole, like, I guess ire it. Or like, you know, like a group by like mentioning. So, but per individual is also important. That's like bringing in these people and giving that homage, but yeah, for expression peace, I was gonna think, I was thinking, Hey, there are like constant conditionals dynamics and potentials in that. And some goals, more like a constant behavior, you can say like, Hey, I'm in peace with alienation. Doesn't matter. You don't say a difference. You know, you don't maybe say these countries are, so-called my enemies. You know, like that's enforced like by media or history, but I'm not ex you know, I'm not inheriting that. So to say that's a constant way of saying that like treating everybody equal, like if you can go like that high on that. But like conditionals are more likely between like entities like states or creating some future synchronization around this expression of peace, if we could make, or if I could find wiser ways. And you could, I, I believe you could give a lot of stuff there on your thoughts and that would make it something really full of those feelings that are good, I would say. Yeah.  
Speaker 10    01:26:44    And that's so maybe expression of request,  
Speaker 1    01:26:49    Well, feel free to reach out in chat in the Gravity channel. Yeah. You can reach out to me or Wonka directly if you wanna follow up on any of that.  
Speaker 10    01:27:06    Thanks a lot.  
Speaker 1    01:27:17    I think,  
Speaker 2    01:27:21    I think is the last one.  
Speaker 12    01:27:27    Hi there. I just wanted to say thank you. I really appreciate you bringing Marshall Rosenberg's work into, into these spaces. I feel like it has a lot to say and not just about basic human human interactions, but how we might organize on, on a larger scale. Like, because once you start unpacking what  
Speaker 12    01:27:49    Operating from these kinds of needs based assessments looks like it, it has implications for, for collective. So I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm really glad that this has been being covered in one. Aish is its gratitude that for the vocabulary, I think having a way to gain clarity on your emotions is the first step towards being able to intelligently infer what another person might, might be feeling. And so create operating space in, in what can be like bandwidth starved dynamics. I'm curious if we could talk a little bit about like the hidden costs of inauthentic yeses. I think that's something Marshall Rosenberg talks about directly a little bit, but like, I'm curious if anybody, if you, how you feel like this, the gratitude work are, but in general, if you have any perspectives on, on that work within Gravity or within the, the tech in general on the, the potential pitfalls or points to navigate around when people give a yes, that isn't genuine and therefore expensive, whether or not that's not that they don't have the capacity to meet the need or whether or not they that deprives them of bandwidth in another way like that.  
Speaker 1    01:29:13    And Marshall does talk about that, but his, you know, his is centered more around in person interaction. So if you, if I ask you, will you help me with X, Y, Z, I can hear about your tone of voice. You know, how the level of excitement that you actually have about that, where probably in these digital spaces, it, I don't know exactly the answer, but I think it takes more conscientiousness on part of the person asking. And I don't know, like that's a good question of what to, what to do with that specifically in digital spaces. And I, I don't,  
Speaker 2    01:30:11    I also think that this is a long life learning. So it's like you, you continue learning every day and by practice, like one thing is understanding it, but then the other thing is practicing it. And maybe you can understand that you are responsible for your own feelings, but you find yourself sometimes telling someone other, Hey, I am feeling because you, and then you like get into that chip and you say to yourself, Hey, I, I am giving that responsibility to that other people. So it's like a, a lifelong learning, all of this Nonviolent Communication, all of this conflict management, or at least that's the way that I perceive it because we all, all the time will face conflict. We all the time we'll face communication constraints all the time. We are, we are talking with people with different cultures, with different backgrounds, with different understandings and perceptions of reality. So being aware of, of that, the way that we express our feelings and our thoughts is as relevant as the, they search themselves and the impact that they can have can help us. Yeah. Get a, a little bit farther into the way that we coordinate peacefully and, and that we coordinate with others without any influence or, or type of violence.  
Speaker 12    01:31:49    Right. If you don't mind me unpacking the why, why, why I'm thinking about the specific subject marsh they talk about in their work, the concept of like emotional triage, like when a person isn't isn't resourced, I believe that's Marshall world might be wrong of emotional triage. When a person isn't resourced to be able to answer or operate within the parameters, you're trying to set forth. There are ways and strategies you can implement to like, to, to help give them the operating space, to like give them an organizing principle. And I'm, I was just curious to like, to begin unpacking what it might look like to develop strategies that might give people room for a better, better yeses and nos, just the same way that we've had to work to like develop shared presence over the last number of years with each other. Like, how do we develop working relationships when we're not in the same country? So I'll be following this. Like, I'll be subject long term with pretty great interest, but I think it feels really necessary.  
Speaker 1    01:33:05    Yeah. I mean, I think, you know, I mean, at least I know how I am when I'm talking to a developer or someone else who's like got tons of demand on their resources. And you know, when, when you, or, you know, somebody who's like an executive or, or whatever, and you're trying to, you want them, you want to get their attention or you wanna get, get a meeting with them or, or something, you know, you, it might be helpful to use that as like a start starting point to think of how do we talk with people when we know that there's gonna, we already know ahead of time that there's gonna be some reasons why they might say no or whatever. And then if we could use that and then, you know, build a template from that potentially,  
Speaker 2    01:34:04    I, I also want to compliment that this tides up really good with the last session that Morgan presented because, and I sent this image that is a, a very more psychological concept that is called the window of tolerance and is how you can identify three states of, of hyper hyper, hyper arousal, optimal arousal zone and hyper arousal. And one of the things that you should try to do to have to build ground for communication is to bring that other person into the optimal arousal zone. And for that, you have to identify if their first reaction is being directed by a triggering of fight or flagged, or if they are being triggered by a hyper arousal re reaction of freeze or fun, where, so, so you, when you are talking with someone regarding a conflict, one of the first things is to try to conduct them into the optimal arousal zone where, where they can process what you are telling them. And also explain, be able to communicate, because if you try to talk with someone who is in their hyper arousal or in their hyper arousal zone, you will end up receiving the, the defense mechanisms that come with the react, the immediate reaction of, of trauma that we talked about in last session.  
Speaker 1    01:35:59    Yeah, that's a good, I did really like that. I had never heard so many, like I just recently heard there's fight flight reflex and then there's the freeze. And then, but Morgan just added like a, a, a bunch more to it that I don't even remember it all off the top of my head, but that's something I wanna spend some more time with for sure.  
Speaker 2    01:36:24    I, I am really happy because sometimes when, when people see the Graviton training study plan, they see, they say like, Hey, how are you go going to connect so many different topics, but I see them really connected one to each other. And like, once we are, we, we continue advancing in the sessions. You will see how all of these ends up being like important pieces of a puzzle that, that you can play and moving in different in, in, in different positions when trying to face conflicted situation. So yeah, how, how trauma can be connected with Nonviolent Communication, trauma, sensitive culture. And you end up seeing that when you are trying to communicate with someone Nonviolent, you also have to be able to, to, to understand the, the state of mind of the other person and what is the trauma that they are carrying or acting to or responding to. So, so all of this gets gets connected to, to, to, to the whole intention of the curse. But yeah, with that, I, I don't know if other one wants to close this session, but I think we are, we are very past the hour and it, it, it has been a really, really cool session.  
Speaker 1    01:37:55    Thank you. Thanks everybody for sticking around.  
Speaker 2    01:38:04    Well, thank  
Speaker 0    01:38:06    You.  
Speaker 2    01:38:06    Bye everyone. And yeah, let's keep in touch. See you next Tuesday in this session. And if you want to come to the Thursdays call that we will have a small presentation for, for the met game community. You're also super invited.  
Speaker 1    01:38:25    Awesome. Thank. 
