Speaker 0    00:00:00    So I, I want to say that today's session has a pop, so we will be delivering a secret word that you can claim the pop through the pop app in your phone or in your computer. I will briefly give some minutes to Bianca to explain how is that process. And we will be giving the, the secret word in the chat so that everyone can, can claim their, their pop for this session.  
Speaker 1    00:00:42    Awesome. Thank you, Juan. Juan, can you, do you have these slides for the PO app? So you should go in your phone in an app in your phone. If you don't have the app in your phone, download the PO app app, you need to put your wallet address that you collect your, your PO. Once you do that, you go to min your Poe. Thank you, huah. Then there is like a plus button over here. Then there's a secret word. That's the one you are using. And then you write down the secret word for today's sessions insight. Once you do that, you can write it down in mind. Today's if you have any question, please reach out to me or you can write down chat and we can help you figure it out. Thank you. I pass it back to  
Speaker 0    00:02:24    Now. I will pass it. That is the facilitator for today's call and I will just take the, the co-host and admit people.  
Speaker 3    00:02:34    Yeah, thanks for that. Okay. So let me share my screen here. Oh yeah. You need to get me back the,  
Speaker 0    00:02:46    Okay. Also just every, some minutes check if all people is joining the room. Sure. Yeah.  
Speaker 3    00:03:03    Okay. So can you guys see the colorful screen there?  
Speaker 2    00:03:15    Yes, we can.  
Speaker 3    00:03:16    Okay, great. So  
Speaker 3    00:03:20    I just gotta get the admittance thing going here so that I can keep track of that too. So, alright, so thank you guys all for coming. So this is, I think the fourth time I've presented this to the Gravity group. Last two times, I've had sort of two sessions per training, but I think this time it's one. So I'm gonna have to put a lot into, into the one training, but basically I'm Regis Chapman DDoS. I run a yoga studio here. You guys actually see me sort of in my yoga studio, most of the time it looks like this. So let's see. So who am I? I'm basically all of these things, a bit of a autistic polymath and, and my partner is Olympic medalist, PanAm games, medalist, and Commonwealth games medalist. We had sort of talked about Gravity DAO as the beginning about being a shelling point for the kind of solution that people choose in the absence of communication. You know, how do we treat each other when we don't have people to guide us and, and, and other things submit some more folks.  
Speaker 3    00:04:54    And so as such, we basically have a, a aim to generate in our members and partner organizations, proactive antifragile, organizational culture, with robust sense, making shared mental models and language systems human-centric and ethical technology and services that bring together everyone, even in the absence of communication. So this is also very nicely harmonized with the mission for the token engineering commons. And so right now we're basically in phase one of, kind of, sort of, you know, splitting from token engineering commons in, in a practical sense, but if not, to not at all, really in the, in the sort of philosophical sense. So this, I think I originally did this because it was the first, this was the first training, but the whole idea here is that, you know, yeah, there's some psychological that exist inside of organizations and, and within ourselves. And so our work is really to go in and try to help people, you know, handle some of those things and to, and so today I'm gonna be talking about sort of the, the depth and, and complexity aspects of how all of these things work and the big picture, you know, concepts and ideas that we can use to, and, and find action modes and things that we can operate from that can help us to build trust and, and resolve conflicts.  
Speaker 3    00:06:35    The basic skills of a Graviton, I think, are these fundamental things where we have to be able to be compassionate about what people are experiencing and gonna admit some more folks and mindful of about, you know, the, the complexity of the situation, try to have a situational awareness about what's going on to try to think in, in these broad-minded ways so that we can lead with our compassion and mindfulness in such a way that it can create connections and, and allow for the, the humanity and, and what is arguably often a, a very busy situation in fraught with a lot of, you know, stress. And the primary thing I think is to be able to sort of be ative and be able to hold space. And so I've created a graphic that actually talks about, you know, the nature of how one is to go about holding space, right?  
Speaker 3    00:07:59    So basically there are three things about participating. There's the curated material. So if you're gonna, for example, attend a training like this one, there's a bunch of curated material like this graphic and other things, concepts and other things that have already been created. So we, as Graviton, when we pop into other communities, they already have a kind of cultural dynamic. They have certain ways to go about doing things, and it's our job to sort of step in there and figure out how, how the, the, how to moderate between the discussions, which have, you know, in the cross pollination side of the thing may have stopped being generative and become, you know, otherwise sort of unhealthy. And then, you know, also to sort of work with the existing culture as it is, and then gradually sort of make, so this is a, this is a model that can work at multiple levels.  
Speaker 3    00:09:00    So if you're participating in a group, that's got a sort of bounded systems thinking, sort of gotta get things done, sort of mode. You can work in that participation model across the top. And that sort of handles how to participate with incor, with informed consent and deal with expectations and safety allow for people to talk about what's alive in them and to discover things, and then on the, the backside of that to make sense of it. And then then, you know, create or modify whatever processes might exist or need to change. And so what you can see is that you would basically go around this model over and over again until hopefully what you would end up in would be a, a more complexity thinking, you know, set of processes. And that I think is, you know, a lot of what we're trying to do here in Gravity is to allow people to, to go through a process where the, the, we often talk about how we're conflict, you know, management group, but at the same time, we have to be more, more broad minded because if we're going to actually resolve conflicts, we have to be able to transform them.  
Speaker 3    00:10:16    And so that automatically would take whatever curated system that existed and transform it into something which is automatically more complex, more inclusive and more, hopefully better for people. So my, the basis for what I talk about is often, you know, dealing with the neuroanatomy of the brain, the left and right brain. And, and there are just two basic ways of thinking. And when they combine together, the whole idea is to sort of work in this sort of paradoxical way. So we can come up with the third alternative that might exist between what it seems to be to apparent opposite. So you'll see that this thing is actually, this thing that I'm talking about is repeated over and over, you know, in this process. And so when I'm talking about, you know, decolonization part of the thing is to recognize that colonization takes place fundamentally in the divided thinking brain, like the, the extractive exploitive, you know, monetary system that we're all participating in outside of the world of cryptocurrencies is all because our culture validates teaches and acts like the only thing that exists is this divided way of thinking, which has inevitable effects in terms of people.  
Speaker 3    00:11:46    And so we'll, we'll say that this thing has more or less value. This person has more or less value. This theory is more or less value things like this. So the idea being that the, the point of my work is to try to get people to include the unified thinking more, which is the, the right brain and to the ideal way that we can talk about these processes by using paradoxes. So with that in mind, I basically, I would, I'm gonna upload this to a Google thing after the meeting. And so I would suggest that you click on these links and, and watch these two videos. One is jewel bolt Taylors, very inspirational Mystro of insight, where she had a hematoma that, that exploded in her brain. And she had to watch her own sort of brain DeVol. It's kind of cool in a way, because she was a brain AIST.  
Speaker 3    00:12:48    And so she got to see it from the inside and sort of then see how her bright brain sort of took over and how she could experience the unified nature of reality. This is also true in the years that I spent living in Hindu monastery. A lot of the spiritual stuff that you go through and, and study is really about validating the sort of right hemisphere of the brain. And I think what that does, it has implications for how we behave in society. And, and you can actually see, you know, how these things roll up. I have a much larger presentation that includes all of this stuff that I talk about. That's really specific to decolonization, but it usually takes, you know, two or three hour period to explain all of it. So I'm not gonna get into the whole thing. I'm just gonna, you know, stay with the, the, the key points here.  
Speaker 3    00:13:42    But if you can just understand that there are two fundamental ways to think, and one is divided and the other is unified. And in order to decolonize ourselves, we have to understand the, the various reflexive divided ways of thinking we've been brought up with in our education system and otherwise, and, and the ethical systems that we need to create considering the unified side of the picture. So, yeah, thanks for the, thanks for the link. It's the same link that I have here. So one of the most inspiring things, and in fact, when I, when I left the ashram living for the, for where I lived for many years, I saw this video and I was like, oh, well, that was what I was doing all this time. So it was a very nice way to contextualize some of this work that I had been doing, you know, internally.  
Speaker 3    00:14:37    And then my, when I came to the token engineering comments, I saw that actually what we were doing is we were doing this thing called the cultural build. And then what I realized is, was that the internal relationships that we were having around our own divided brains had been very much revealed in terms of the, I'm gonna admit some more folks, very much revealed in the way that our social forms are, are happening. So, you know, sexism, racism, transphobia, all these things all come from this divided way of looking at things. And the whole point of this is that that's fine. Really? Are you there? Somebody just showed up and okay, so really in the end, if you think only in divided ways, you're gonna always end up in this sort of colonizer worldview, right? You're gonna end up in this divided way of thinking.  
Speaker 3    00:15:38    You're gonna end up in, in a kind of narcissistic approach because you know, all you're doing is reflexively dividing all the time, and it should be pretty obvious by looking at the culture that we're doing that all the time. Now, the thing is, is that all the pretexts for this kind of narcisistic abuse are just, you know, relatively simplistic, right? So the, the point of all of this is to, to sort of understand how that's tricked us in the financial system, which, because I'm talking to folks in, in DAO and, and in token engineering commons, and often, you know, DAO are focus on, you know, crypto economics. I'm sort of heading a little bit toward that, but my point about that is just that the way we treat each other, the way we educate each other, the way we socialize, where we talk to each other, all of these things, the, and the, the financial systems and instruments that we've created on the back of this divided way of thinking all are revealed inside of the inside of the culture, that, that basically just makes even unified things into divided things.  
Speaker 3    00:16:49    And so, so, yeah, so here's a whole bunch of lists of different things that I've sort of observed about the nature of, of these different social forms, right? And so prior to colonization, what we had was you could have a, you could have the whole entire world was sort of in a more or less unified way of thinking as a whole. And so you could have a, somebody like a genus con or somebody come along and do very divided, you know, colonizer kind of approach to things, but their, their actions would be sort of reabsorbed back into the O overlying unified mentality that existed on the planet at the time. Well, with, since colonization by Europe and, and others, you know, basically that, that is now a worldwide phenomenon. So the, the, the, the thermostatic balance that used to be able to happen with a generally unified approach to things, please do meet yourself by the way whoever's talking there.  
Speaker 3    00:17:57    And so it used to be that, you know, we could contextualize ourselves in this unified way, but now we have an entire planet that's covered in divided colonizer world views. And so we almost have to, to rebalancing so that the unified mindset can, can come back. Right? And so it's in my view, the, the whole reason why cryptocurrencies exist is to try to redress that balance. But if we don't do that internally with ourselves, then we can't, we can't really see the root causes of, of all of these issues. And so, so my work recently has been very much, you know, working along this sort of subversive line and trying to diagnose this without having to say, you know, some of the things that you, you hear often, and in, you know, the existing culture, I think everybody is suffering under this social form. And, but some of us have certain amount of blindness to it that we're not aware of.  
Speaker 3    00:19:05    So it's my feeling. And my reason for participating in token engineering comments is to try to help individual people to understand or recognize what's going on. And then that'll make them, you know, more able to create financial instruments and deal with each other in such a way that we can undo the legacy of, of that colonization. So, like I said before, we still have, you know, two monetary systems and, you know, there's an extract exploitative versus the aligned and generative side of the picture. And of course, you know, from dealing with dealing with the DAO side of things, that there are regenerative, eco villages and things that are all coming up, all, all of these are response to, to that type of setup as well. So what I was looking for was just a unifying framework in which to understand how all of these things works and, and there's a certain amount of inherent complexity to it. So the, the next slide is about, about working with four basic principles that are set up in sort of two halves. One is the trust creation side. The other is the conflict management side, right? And so my, my emphasis is really on, I don't know very much about principal D at all, but principal, a principal B and principal C are kind of my jam. And, and there's a bunch of stuff in here. For example, there's still more people to admit.  
Speaker 3    00:20:42    So I'm basically here talking to you today and right now about sort of the complexity and how we go through and develop things, and what are the different kinds of mental models that we can use. And then I'll talk a little bit about OS from principles and how the commons kind of binds all these things together. So each principle is a, is a modality of creating a shared language of sense, making, understanding, and connection. That's super important because I find that a lot of people who work in this space, they're all spend a lot of time learning solidity or Python or any number of programming languages. And yet we don't spend hardly any time talking about how is that we get along and what are the shared languages of that we can use to actually get along. And, and what are the different ways in which we can, we can connect and understand what we're doing in this sort of, you know, unified framework.  
Speaker 3    00:21:43    So seems to me that as a Graviton, you, you need to have a unified vision. You need to be able to, to look at these four principles, like tools that you can use to unify our thinking and being Graviton. It's actually, our primary role is to, to sort of hold that unified space when other people cannot, right. Even, even yourself, sometimes you'll find yourself being unable to, you know, hold that space. So you might need, you know, Graviton or a friend to kind of, you know, come in here. But it's also true that, that your confidence of this sort of thing can be, you know, educated and, and expanded in internally. And so this training is an attempt to, you know, to do that. And it's a lifelong pro generative process that really you need to, to kind of work with and understand that, that it's an, you know, evolutionary process of where we're continuously curating new things and new methodologies for connecting with each other new mental models and other things.  
Speaker 3    00:22:50    And so we can improve our ability to curate, to moderate and to cross pollinate. And then what that does, that it will give you the ability to see into the, the, the unified and divided viewpoints of people who are often, you know, sort of broken up by a conflict, or just the inability, because our society doesn't train us to really think in any unified ways, you know, to, to learn how to do that. In the first principal, a basically around of trust creation, I'm really a fan of, you know, these three basic things. One, one is the connection framework, which I won't go into here, but we can talk about in another context, spiral dynamics and integral theory, which essentially are theories of everything that give you a sense of how people can develop their own internal work. And then, you know, deliberately developmental organizations and, and me inside of a meta modern system, which I think token engineering comments and other Dows are attempting to become, but you're not really meta modern, unless you're trying to care for all of the individual participants in the system and not just fiscally either, but the, the overall psychological health of the participants in that system principle B is about Ostrom's principles.  
Speaker 3    00:24:28    This is a very beautiful graphic that I found today that actually talks about this. The Gravity group is, is focused on, on about half of, of these things specifically. So 4, 5, 6, and eight. So the point of four, five, and six should be obvious to people who are participating in an individual DAO and then the, the responsibility for governing the common nested tiers. So that would mean our relationships with other, with other Dows, you know, would be affected. And so it's also just a basic psychological truth that you can't extend to someone else that, which you have not extended to yourself. So if you're not compassionate to yourself, it's not likely you're gonna be compassionate to others. So it's also true that if you don't care for all the individual participants in your group, then when you reach out to other DAO and that relationship's gonna be more fraud.  
Speaker 3    00:25:26    And so part of the idea behind Gravity is to not only improve all the individual participants, but as a side effect, you would end up having an excellent way of dealing with things on the, on the doubt or down side of the picture and, and when you're interacting and having partnerships and things like that. So I think that's sort of implied by the fact that the common stack started the TEC and the TEC started Gravity and omega and all these other groups that kind of work independently. So it's also true that there's a bit of an evolution that I've noticed here. And I think that I think Gravity and the Gravity DAO, and, and just recognizing that there is a kind of step two to this. What I've noticed is that a lot of people are like, I'm tired of this abusive extractor system. I'm just gonna go over and jump into a DAO, right.  
Speaker 3    00:26:22    But what they don't really realize is that they need to work on, you know, how to deprogram and decolonize from the abusive extractive system and take back agency and autonomy. We've been trained away from knowing how to retain our own agency and autonomy and how to take responsibility. And so it's a, it's a complex thing. You have to have a lot of trauma informed, compassionate groups and teams and people who, who have language around those things. And so, you know, Gravity and, and Graviton are all about, you know, trying to get those things worked on and, and, and make the participants in the system better at all of that. So that they AC they can actually fulfill the promise of the DAO, which is really a kind of digital version of an intentional community from, you know, that has happened for a long time. You know, so, and I also, you know, I often say that this step number two is shadow side of the psychological shadow side of, of Dows right, where you don't just get to skip over all that other work.  
Speaker 3    00:27:42    And, and I do notice that that even in the token engineering coms, it took an entire year to do a cultural build. There are still parts of that, that, that we missed, you know, so we have to, to think about that as a, as a continuous improvement process rather than an individual thing. And so I think probably participating in Gravity by becoming a Graviton, then you'll become a lot more informed about how to, how to deal with all of these things. And then you can better represent and, and frankly become a DAO. And I've, I've taken it further in the sense that I believe that there's, once you are actually a DAO that gives you a different sort of ground floor in which a place of strength in which to come, where then what do you do? And, and, and so you have a, a, a stable decentralized structure from which then individuals can sort of grow and become the best versions of themselves in, in step four here where, you know, a deliberately developmental organization would, would help in and assist with that.  
Speaker 3    00:28:47    And instead of just caring about its own self and not caring about the individuals participating in the system, this is a, this is a, a view of the, the AOL and spiral dynamics theory of everything. This is the all quadrants, all levels model, and it may seem a little bit confusing, but there is a very simple, you know, narrative framework that you can use to understand this. If you find yourself in the individual interior, that's where you generally are going to operate from, right? Your general self and consciousness is going to have a certain developmental level. And you're going to be, you know, in the, the achiever self or the sensitive self side of the thing, because that's generally where most of society is now. So you'll be kind of trained up like that. And so if you interact with a group like the token engineering comments, which is really, really green here, right, and maybe bordering on the integral, then there may be, if you're coming from an egocentric self and try to interact with a pluralistic group over here, there could be a conflict in terms of the way that you imagine, you know, the culture working.  
Speaker 3    00:30:07    So, so these, these kinds of tools give us some way of kind of grasping the, the larger forces at work when it comes to, you know, dealing with conflicts, right? So it's also true that if you've got a whole bunch of people who are working out the egocentric self, like a lot of these, what do you wanna call 'em? You know, shit coin groups or whatever who are just trying to take advantage of people, you know, that's, that's a, that's a recipe for, for conflict, right? So people think they're coming into a pluralistic thing when in fact the, the, the cultural worldview of whatever group, you know, for those kinds of coins is really like a, a very different, very different thing. So, so, and then there's a system that's created by that culture and worldview. And so what I've noticed, there's a kind of, there's a kind of pendulum that goes between the, the individual self and the consciousness and the social system and environment that, that sort of is the result of the culture of worldview.  
Speaker 3    00:31:13    So the individual participants influence the culture and worldview, which then influences the system. And then that system then works backward and influences the cultural and worldview and the individuals participating in the system. So it's, it's important from a, a large standpoint to be able to kind of get how that works and to have in your mind, you know, that you can evaluate yourself and work with other people who might be, you know, developed out here in tier two to, to understand how to, to develop yourself and then how to, to develop the culture and worldview of the groups that you're participating in. And as Graviton times, we're often called in specifically and hired specifically to accomplish goals like that. So that's why we're sort of talking about it here.  
Speaker 3    00:32:03    And then, you know, we can use other tools, and this is just one of many, but I wanted to give you an example of a, of a worksheet. And if you were, if you're paying a decent amount of attention, you might have noticed that way back here. I had, I have included the, the, the polarity mapping infinity symbol behind, right, because it actually relates directly. So if you, if you take a look at the way, you can actually just sit down with a, with a group and, and try to take a look at this. This is basically a worksheet that you could use to figure out the ways in which, you know, conflicts can occur, because oftentimes it's a conflict between sort of two false dualities people who were afraid of change. People who are, you know, feel like they're stuck in a, to overly stable system, and there can grow conflict between that. So in Gravity, what we do is we develop and work within and inventory and, and, and create mental models and processes and educate people on methodologies to resolve different kinds of conflicts. And this is just, you know, sort of one of those, and you can see that this is highly correlated to the, to the left right. Brain stuff that I'm talking about too.  
Speaker 3    00:33:35    Currently, what we're working on some right now is we're, we're one of the finances in the commons prize currently in phase one of, of Gravity DAO, which is kind of pulling us out of token engineering commons. And we have our website, which is in a coming soon mode right now. And I've got links to all of the, the processes. So if you wanna participate in helping us deal with the website, or do they need planning, or, and then Bianca's got psychology working group. And so these are some of the other things that we're doing. I will say that a lot of the stuff that I'm talking to you about now, the narrative things that I'm talking about will be offering a, a group course between the omega group and Gravity, that sort of talks about how to look at a particular thing, a website, a graphics, like the ones that I create about doing narrative construction, because often narratives are the way in which people will thanks. So if you have two posing, conflictual narratives, you know, learning how to sort of understand each side of that, break that up, and then find a way to weave those narratives back together is very useful skill for a Graviton. So I'm happy to answer any and all questions at this point.  
Speaker 3    00:35:08    Anything I, I might have missed there one.  
Speaker 0    00:35:19    Yeah. I, I think that maybe you you've gone really deep into a lot of, of complex concepts, but it all can be explained really easily. So we can make some, some like memes or metaphors to, to like, explain what we are talking about divided and unified and, and yeah. How, how can this change of approach make an impact on how you, you face a situation?  
Speaker 3    00:35:59    Yeah. And, and I'm basically just saying that, that there are sort of three things about the way this works. There's, there's your own, you know, internal things. So like for example, I have autism just have to deal with my own brain. Right. So, and then there's what society is trying to tell me about the fact that I have autism and most people generally that I have to then be able to parse that so I can figure out, is that me, or is that society, or is that my parents or different kinds of things. Right. And so when we're dealing with conflicts, you know, it's important to be able to parse out all those things and to have tools to kind of break that up so that you can understand the, the underlying narratives and hidden things, which, you know, kind of exist there. So, so yeah, I, I have gone really deep into, you know, a series of complex things, but I, my, the point about all of this is that I find that the colonized approach is one of decontextualization where, where we we've removed our ability to think with complexity or think broadly.  
Speaker 3    00:37:09    And so what I'm attempting to do is to give you guys a series of mental models and other things into which you can contextualize your work with the Gravity DAO and, and with figuring out how to resolve conflicts as you participate in those things.  
Speaker 0    00:37:26    Yeah. I, I remember you have this beautiful example. Like if you accidentally, you are walking and you bump your finger to the bed, right. You don't yell at your finger  
Speaker 3    00:37:41    That's  
Speaker 0    00:37:41    Right. You know, that your finger is part of yourself.  
Speaker 3    00:37:45    That's right.  
Speaker 0    00:37:46    So  
Speaker 3    00:37:47    That's a unified way of thinking. Right. So  
Speaker 0    00:37:50    Why do we yell and judge others exactly. When we are like all part of, of a United entity, a United society. So yeah. That humanity, that example, I loved it.  
Speaker 3    00:38:06    Yeah. And, and I guess what I'm saying is just that it's been my observation, that a persistent decontextualization where, where, you know, when I go to scratch my head, I'll accidentally poke myself in the eye and I'm, you know, I'm just there yelling at my finger. That seems to be the way our culture works now, do you know what I'm saying? Like, it's just the dumbest thing in the world to me. And so I, like, I want a solution for that. What's a, what's a way that I can think about this so that when I accidentally do poke myself in the eye and go, no, no, no. It's okay. Do you know what I'm saying? And, and, and so, so the, the point of it is, is that, yeah, it's true. What, what, what Sean is saying, you know, this stuff is only complex because people have made it complex. Right. We, we have, yeah. We often, you know, kind of Cate to people who are experts and other things. And I like to think that, that we can, we can all figure out how to, how to do this stuff. Right. Sarah, do you have a question? I see your hand is raised.  
Speaker 4    00:39:11    Yes. Thanks first. Thank you for this great presentation, which are summarizes all this practices to build a healthy community. And what I wanted to ask you is what do you think that the technology or the DAO adds to it, and how do you think this can survive in some way, large scale and technology? Because we are talking on one part of practices of an intention behind these practices and then comes the tokens and all the technology stuff, and also the large scale in term of number of people. So I I'd be very interested about your views of this release. Does the DAO layer technology layer, additional tweet.  
Speaker 3    00:40:07    So there are three basic examples that I like to give that's related to this. Okay. So, so, so think about like, you know, let's say somebody a figure like Jonas sock, right? So he discovered a, you know, vaccine for a debilitating disease and then gave it away to the world. Right. So I, I don't know if you guys know what a Dobsonian telescope is, but I know the guy who invented the Dobsonian telescope, that John Dobson, he was a tic monk and lived in a Hindu monastery for 30 years. And so, like, he was one of my mentors. And so, so he actually invented the Dobsonian telescope and gave away that. And so now he has made it, he used to have a thing called the sidewalk. Astronomers would, you know, he'd pointed at the, on San Francisco and he'd point, you know, and people come look at Saturn, you know what I mean?  
Speaker 3    00:40:57    And be like, oh me, I had no idea. You could build something from home Depot, you know, that could see Saturn. Do you know what I mean? So it was like, so you've got this sort of egalitarian sort of mindset. That's thinking about the commons thinking about, right. And so that's what I was saying about Gravity being so rooted in Ostrom's principles and the groundedness of the commons. And what what's happened with us is the colonizers mindset. Basically, when you can see it here, where I live in British Columbia, you've got, you know, what's called crown land, technically owned by the queen of England. So you've got, you've got, you know, so she just sends the queen is like, yeah, go in and cut down all the trees, all the old growth trees. So that's the way we tend to treat the commons. You know what I mean, treat water this way.  
Speaker 3    00:41:43    We treat, you know, native people this way. We treat every, you know, like, so this is what we do with the commons. This is an extractive process. But what if we were to value the commons instead like a Jonas sock or a, you know, and then what, what you would end up with would be what, one of my favorite things is like Hinduism is a decentralized religion. I don't know if you're aware of this, but it Hinduism hi. Hi, the hi Indian continent was, was invaded for like a thousand years, consecutively, never ending. So there's just so many people just constantly invading it, right? So that's actually kind of what the financial system is, is now we, and we just have this extractive system. So the response that the Hindus had was that they took all of the religion away from the temples and away from the churches.  
Speaker 3    00:42:29    And now every Hindus got a locker room in their house where they worship and that's how it works for them. Right. That's a decentralized really, it's a billion people. And so like for me, the original sort of crypto thing, you know, is, is got a bunch of other examples that you can use to see how people respond. Right. And so, so mega group is about trying to create people who would respond like Jonas O and like John Dobson to stress, right. Or, or to their intelligence or to their ability to deal with complexity. Right? So Jonas O not everybody can discover a vaccine for a, because not everybody's that smart, but those people then can, you know, so for me, I think about, you know, people who work in token engineering to be people like that, they, we want to encourage people like that, teach them about ethics and, and undo the damage that's been done by the extractive abusive system and allow them to, you know, come to these other ways of thinking.  
Speaker 3    00:43:32    And then as a population, then we can be wise enough to make a decentralized choice. Like the Hindus did about, you know, decentralizing, you know, their religion or their, their worship or their, you know, their own internal practices to ground them, whatever you want to call those things, their spirituality. So, you know, we can do, we can do that with finance too. And it's also true that, you know, abusive systems in order to replace them, you have to kind of create parallel systems, which, and, and it's important that you have people who like Jonas stock and John Dobson who were creating these parallel systems that don't just recreate another problematic system. That's gonna blow up in the faces of people three or four generations down the line. Right. So that's kind of, I, did I answer your question?  
Speaker 4    00:44:21    I guess we com I completely agree on, on all your, how do you say on the realization on what goes wrong? And I guess my question was really focus August and the link with technology, because I had been, I had been discussing, for example, with people of disco, let's say that after a certain number of people, it gets really hard to maintain compassion, empathy, trust. Yeah. And so, for me, it's a key question, you know, and also how do you tokenize taking care of, you know, how do you separate taking care of her from being inefficient? And then doesn't, doesn't, it takes away kind of the spirit of it. How do we deal with that?  
Speaker 3    00:45:06    So I have, there's some ideas about that. No, there are good answers. And actually we're talking about them a lot in, in token engineering comments, let's just be clear, right? The extractive abuse of mindset is the, the mindset of a merchant it's just straight up, right? One thing one person has this amount of value and all objects are evaluated according to value. I mean, even look at how our mentality is about our psychology, you know, do I have worth, do I have value? Do you know what I'm saying? And like, what is it that I do value? Like, it's just subversively true that we have learned to treat ourselves in this kind of way. So what I'm suggesting is that that technology itself, isn't the problem, but technology has typically been used to aggregate wealth for the already wealthy, right. That's just typically how it works.  
Speaker 3    00:46:02    Right. So it's just so, so up to now, you know, it's, it's like, you know, merchants have just basically merchants run the world. Now nation states are just figureheads and, and, you know, it's the merchants that decide everything. And, and the mentality of having this thing is worth more or less because of some arbitrary system, you can undo that problem with technology. So let's say for example, an example of decontextualization is let's make everything into one token. Well, how about we take the old Hindu idea about the eight forms of wealth, and instead of smashing it all down into a single token that we actually talk about the circle of genius and social wealth and, and, and, and all these different kinds of things that can happen, where it can fill us up and make us feel wealthy rather than smashing it all down into one decontextualized thing.  
Speaker 3    00:47:01    That's, that's what colonization does. That's what colonizers do. There can be only one, right? So my point is, is that we often, we often do this. And so I spend a lot of time anybody who's been in groups with me, I spend a lot of time saying, can we make this broader? Right. And I've got a, I've got an actual, you know, those of you who've been in groups with me in the past, might hear me say the words. I have a graphic for that a fair bit, cuz I almost always do. Let me just find it real quick so I can talk about what you're talking about. So here it is. So here is here is the eco guy that was made by the data group. Right. And so my influence with this was to add the eight forms of wealth around the outside.  
Speaker 3    00:47:54    Right. So if you're talking about smashing everything down into a single token, right. I think that's a mistake because then we're not recognizing the humanity, which is inherent in these different kinds of ways that we're doing things. Right. And so, so yeah, I mean, I can, I I've shared this in other places, but I can share it with you guys too. Yeah. But yeah, it's, that's what I'm saying is just that technology is created, but you have to have, we have to have, we have to actively create people who are thinking about the commons before themselves. And so that we can then take that technology and leverage it for the use of the commons rather than against, you know, and, and, and what I'm suggesting is that this left and right brain way of thinking is all about, you know, shifting the balance of that for, for people and making it so that more people can understand that they've been lied to by society.  
Speaker 3    00:48:56    They've been educated in a, in a weird way that makes it Jonathan hate calls it, the weird, the Western Europe, educated industrialized, rich democratic nations ha the, the amount of influence that goes into the, our, our brain wiring. It actually for weird versus non weird societies, let's say native or indigenous peoples versus, you know, these, these colonized societies that even goes to visual processing. So if you draw like a line on a piece of paper, right, for a weird mentality, they're gonna see, they're gonna see the square and they're gonna see the line as two separate entities, whereas non weird or native population would regard those two things in relationship with each other, right. It, it is so deeply held. And I, I feel like we need to recognize the problem and then work within these new communities to educate our way out of that sort of issue that that we're facing. So hopefully that answered your question in terms of technology and I'm gonna get to Wonka now.  
Speaker 0    00:50:12    Yeah. I, I just want to share an idea that Ben one once wrote and that the change we want to, to do in DAO it's because DAO will be new institutions. And if we don't intentionally change the way or the personas we want to have in, in participating in this environment, if, if we don't work on, on those people, we will end up having like destructive doubts. And, and if, if, if we work on, on that infrastructure of the new institutions, then we will have a high impact on, on the future because those new institutions will, will build the future. And if we work on, on that ethic for these new institutions, we'll have a direct impact on the, on the future. And yeah, I will pass it to, to Sean too.  
Speaker 5    00:51:22    Yeah. Yeah. I'll just so much information here and it's, and it's all so extremely valuable. And I really wish that this could be two sessions because this is just absolutely fascinating for me,  
Speaker 3    00:51:35    By the way, I'll be here as long as you guys want. So I have no time limit for myself.  
Speaker 5    00:51:40    I unfortunately do have to drop it too. Unfortunately,  
Speaker 3    00:51:42    That's, I'm just telling you my, my thing.  
Speaker 5    00:51:44    Yeah. But I, I don't know. I like, I think my major takeaway from this is, and something that really resonates with me is like something you said that you can't show someone compassion if you don't show that for yourself. And I think that that can go up towards the organizations too. Right? So if organizations are formed in a way, and they're not like owning these, these thought processes in this way of doing things, then it resonates in, in their actions. And I think that through like this training specifically, if we can kind of find that place in ourselves and, and come to these conflicts from that place, we're also opening up these people that are having conflicts to this way of thinking. And I think that's so it's so important. Like not, not just for DAO, as I'm saying, like for the evolution of humanity, like this is right, this is huge. And, and, and it's something like if you can just be open minded and, and really like take this in and, and own it, it's, it's, it's really huge. And I just, I really wanna thank you for sharing this with us Regis, thank you so  
Speaker 3    00:52:51    Much. I, I keep this thing as a reminder, it was one of the, one of the spiritual teachers that my partner loves. And, and this is in like a little calendar thing. That's got some reminders and, and the, the teacher of this current teacher that we're, you know, used to say, who are you to set right. The world, you have to first rectify yourself and your own mind. And when the mind becomes right, then everything will appear, all right. Look within yourself. But then if you're going to act on the basis of that, then you can, you can act from a place of, am I the doer of this thing? You know, non doership is really big because you wanna, in many ways you wanna act on behalf of the universe. Right. But if you still think that you are the unique, you know, contributor to this, or I donated so much money, or I did, you know, I created this token, that's gonna change the world. That's, that's more of that same sort of colonize mindset. Do you know what I mean? I got mine, you know, hustle, culture, you know, whatever. So that's, you know, so thanks for, for, for recognizing that. Yeah. Any, anybody else wanna point something outer or Mo or just, or Nicola David. Heather.  
Speaker 3    00:54:11    Oh, Gimo okay. Gomo  
Speaker 6    00:54:15    Yes. Thank first. Congratulations for your very amazing that one of your charts, we can see the steps, how to convert to DAO. And I think the really challenge is that we are going to have in the step two and three is because we have to be confident that the realistic thing is that the traditional way we are organized is by a few groups of power. Right. That's right. But they are, they are really interested in keep that power.  
Speaker 3    00:54:59    Yeah.  
Speaker 6    00:55:00    I think the real challenge is how, how are we going to convince them or how they going to convince themselves that they need to change? I think this is a really change for yeah. For Rav and, and the organization.  
Speaker 3    00:55:16    Yeah. And I think it hearkens back to Ostrom's principles. So if we're doing mutual monitoring, what are we monitoring for? Do you know what I'm saying? Like, for example, I would like somebody to say that somebody like Griff or Livy, or how effective are they at breaking up and distributing the power that they have because they're people who are there at the foundation of this thing, how effective are they at that I would reward them for giving away their power. Right. You can see that Griff is amazing at that. You can see that living's amazing at that. Right. But it's the thing we don't measure, but why. Right. So like, so, so I would wanna look at all these metrics. How effective have you been at deprogramming yourself from the abusive extractive economy? Do you know what I'm saying? How effective have you been at decolonizing yourself or taking up a unified perspective? Right. I would wanna have metrics on that stuff and not, you know, many of the other things that I see DAO actually putting metrics on. So yeah.  
Speaker 2    00:56:23    Thank you.  
Speaker 0    00:56:26    Well, yeah. Continue.  
Speaker 3    00:56:30    Those of you who need to go, you know, you're, you're welcome to go, but I'm gonna, like I say, I'm gonna, I'm gonna stay. And so you, I can answer all the rest of your questions until they're done. So we're at the top of the hour and I wanna respect people's time, but I'm I'm off today. So I don't have any time constraints.  
Speaker 0    00:56:56    I just want go ahead that next week we will have Morgan around trauma sensitive and anti-oppressive culture, but yeah, I will open the mic for Nicole and for AIA.  
Speaker 7    00:57:12    Thank you. Hello everybody. Can you hear, can you hear me well? Yep. Awesome. I just wanna, thank you. I know I see your name Regis Chapman, but I know they call you.  
Speaker 3    00:57:26    ER, do. Yeah.  
Speaker 7    00:57:28    Durga.  
Speaker 3    00:57:29    Yeah. This is Durga dos me servant.  
Speaker 7    00:57:33    Thank you. I really, really deeply appreciate your presentation today. I love the presentation. I'd love to get a link for it.  
Speaker 3    00:57:41    Oh, sure.  
Speaker 7    00:57:42    I also,  
Speaker 7    00:57:44    I want to say, I want to say that everything you've shared deeply resonates and you know, I am pretty freshly only three months through part of the GI team. And I've been for last year high from Costa part of building intentional communities on the ground. We were successful enough to, you know, have one own association set up and founded. And we are actually actively working on our micro economy. We are going to launch our own DAO. I mean, I mean, it's really beautiful to, to be part of this whole new evolution and growth and what it's coming with that in DAO and social across all these amazing tools while I do agree a hundred percent that the work starts within ourselves, because if we do not exemplify, if we do not adopt the, the principles that are just so deeply rooted, rooted in our culture and understand and be able to zoom out, we only will be hardly to. I mean, how can we really participate in this change and bring solutions to the conflict, which conflict is part of everyday life. And actually I've never grown more. And my really my relationships were never strong if there were not the conflicts there that we were able to work through together, but it does take a lot of personal work, a lot of work with the ego and really taking, putting off the personal agenda and looking at the bigger picture on, in that, on this this way, we can really aim, try to do bigger things.  
Speaker 3    00:59:35    So, yeah. And it's interesting what I'm talking about, the left and the right, those things are not opposites. One includes the other, do you see what I'm saying? So it's not that you know, but, but the divided way of thinking sets up a false duality about everything, do you know what I'm saying? And, and then it is actually the ego is nothing but a construction of those mistakes. It is a, is it a thing you have to put in effort to maintain? Right. So, so I'm yeah, here, I'm making,  
Speaker 7    01:00:09    How  
Speaker 3    01:00:10    Can you, and then I'm gonna validate that fallacy over and over again. And then on top of that, I'm gonna build a whole nother group of house of cards and I'm gonna keep validating all of this stuff. And then I'm gonna call myself, you know, by this name and, and the value of having another name. I, I figured out was that you, you, you, you have to look at your identity. I went from being a king, right. Regs. It's good to be the king to being a servant. Right. It's very much like a paradoxical way of looking at that. So it, I, I almost feel like it groups like yours should take on a different name for what role you're currently inhabiting in the DAO or whatever, in a sense. Right. Because then it would change your identification as to what's going on. So I, I just sorry to add to that, but I, I wanted to just add that. So I'm sorry to interrupt you  
Speaker 7    01:00:59    Agree? Yes, yes. For sure. I had something to, to respond that it, it just went away, but  
Speaker 3    01:01:08    Sorry about that.  
Speaker 7    01:01:09    This is a, this is a beautiful discussion. Yes. And I agree, oh, it's came back. It's coming back. Oh, I didn't wanna say that. We, I mean, that's the, there's the beauty of duality, right? We are living in a world of contrast, so how can we embrace it all and, and find a piece with it all. Cause I used to run away from conflict now it's my, like, I find so much passion in it. So it's really just changing the perspectives and making new relationship with yourself and with all the narratives you have in your mind. Right.  
Speaker 3    01:01:38    Well, and, and the other thing that happens with this culture is, is that it actually fo the cult, the divided culture fosters immaturity, because the, for my definition of maturity means your ability to resolve parent dualities, right. And to transcend and include those two things in a common understanding that would make it so that both of those things are both valid, but also no longer just pulling you, like you're being drawn in quartered. You know what I'm saying? It's just, you know, you have to, you have to pull yourself up and out of that and, and create a kind of thing. And, and that is the process itself of maturity of repeating that over and over and over again. So I could be 70 years old and be a man baby. Like we see in public, you know, life all over the place now, but, you know, but what I'm saying is the culture does that.  
Speaker 3    01:02:28    And so we have the chance to create our own thought culture and to create our own, you know, make decisions that are, that are in fact mature. And that would, that would systems that wouldn't enable us to transcend and include apparent dualities into a larger understanding and recontextualize our lives. And so a lot of what I do is I just, you know, flood people with context and then, and then they're like, oh my God, this is too much like, but you know, I do that for a reason because I feel like that has to maybe break the hold of the decontextualized colonized sort of way of living. So  
Speaker 7    01:03:07    Yeah, I see, I see that you're bringing spirituality into practical world with, with words that are understandable for, for everyone, for practical mind, for the left Hemis spirit. Exactly. And I love it. So thank you so much for, yeah.  
Speaker 3    01:03:22    You're welcome.  
Speaker 7    01:03:23    Honored to be. Thank you so  
Speaker 3    01:03:24    Much. Thank you. A wish just, and look forward to hearing you.  
Speaker 8    01:03:29    Mm. Hello? Hello. Thank you. I did not know that. I think I was the jerk unmuted. I was, I was weeding and I didn't even know. I like, I went to go move towards the end and I picked up my phone and I was like, I like turned my camera off. I was just a gasp. I was like, oh gosh, I'm so sorry. It's all good. But it was, it was sweet to be with nature, listening to you and, and experiencing the evolution of your presentations. That's a treat. Okay. To see, to see the ways this has. I remember the presentations before I attended my first Graviton training. So they were different before then evolved through then have changed now and are now like this and are still changing. So it's just awesome to watch these graphics evolve cuz that's, that's what happens over time.  
Speaker 8    01:04:24    Yeah. And it's beautiful to like visually see it. I also wanted to thank you for the ways that you're able to contextualize really, really heavy stuff. Like one thing that I've learned in, in a lot of the like trauma work that I've done is that it takes a lot of different approaches and modalities to break down. What's like, what's been done to us by our environments, right. Products of our environments. And, and there's gonna be so many different ways to reach so many people. And there's gonna be like a need for so many people to speak to these things in so many different ways. So I just have a lot of appreciation. Like I will kind of cuz I'm autistic, I'll disassociate a little bit before I'll get activated by you I'll have to be like, oh shoot facing out. Hey. And I'll like fidget or something and I'll be alright, but I don't get activated by you. I don't like wanna disassociate and be like, oh my gosh, because of something you had, like, you keep it in a like this English, math place or something is kind of what it feels like for me. So I just, I wanna thank you for your magic. Yeah. Thank you for this session.  
Speaker 3    01:05:32    Thank you Walter. I can't yet hear you Walter  
Speaker 9    01:05:48    While Walter solves he's mic my muted. Sorry.  
Speaker 3    01:05:53    Oh, there we go. Yeah, there you're  
Speaker 9    01:05:55    Okay. Yeah. Technology is great. Right?  
Speaker 9    01:05:59    I'm still waiting for that paperless office. So yes. Nice meeting those amongst you. I haven't met yet and, you know, big hello to the few I have. So I've been only like wanting to learn from this initiative for about six months. And now that I'm three sessions late, I'm still hopeful. So what, what I wanted since my focus is pretty much, I'm kind of put my spirituality thing on hold a couple of years ago, as far as the active work, kinda back to societal in. And I'm kind, what I observed when I first got involved was DAO in the DAO stack and argon ecosystems about three years ago is that people kept proposing cause based political action based DAO and they never ever gone anything. They didn't even develop through the very initial stages. And I was curious about that, that somehow what those folks were envisioning and what DAO structures at the time offered really was not a match. And lately there's been this kinda labeling of impact DAO, but I don't necessarily see those really happen either. So I'm wondering from this community, what your thoughts are about, you know, the well, the wants and the outcomes.  
Speaker 3    01:07:49    Well, it seems to me that that let's use it, let's use a political example. Okay. So if you look at the, the sort of propaganda of the Western mentality, right? The Russia went through in the nineties that went through this whole glass nose period, right? Where things, you know, we had democracy showed up in, in Russia and everything. But it's funny because, you know, with the advent of bladder and Putin and everything, you know, from our perspective, that was like 30 years of, geez, it must be nice to finally be Russia experiencing this kind of thing. This is the, the narrative that you hear a lot, but the Russians, it was a nightmare because they've been, they were just locked into their whole way. You know, of doing everything, everything was given to them, they had a good job. It was, it wasn't a good apartment.  
Speaker 3    01:08:48    They had a car, they wasn't a good car, but they had something, you know what I'm saying? But then, then the, the moment democracy O O opened up, then all the kleptocrats showed up and took everything and there was nothing less for any of them. And so now you have to have another strong leader back, you know, in Vladimir Putin to put things right again. So that's why, you know, that person has so, so it's interesting to see how the, the, if you look at it from the inside, right? The shadow part, they, they were not ready. They didn't have tools. So this is what I'm talking about with my step two thing on the, on the screen, you don't just jump over and just suddenly become a democracy in Russia. They have no competence at that. They have, they they've lived for hundreds of years without that stuff.  
Speaker 3    01:09:33    Do you know what I'm saying? So there's just no way to just drop them into this because all you'll end up with is a bunch of people stealing money from 'em and, and all those people are now billionaires, right? They were common street thugs before, but now they're billionaires. So, you know, I mean, it's just because they weren't given, they weren't given the, the tools and the, the mentality. So what I'm saying is, is that, that I think that's as true of, of, of Dows is it, is anything else because we just didn't address the underlying structural and, and, and individual participatory systems that would evolve that to make it, so that democracy was then viable for Russia. I, I find this a lot in DAO, and even in a group that this forward thinking as token engineering commons, there's all this psychological shadow of the legacy cultural code base that comes with you.  
Speaker 3    01:10:24    And you have to have a system that's prepared to handle all of those things. And so that's what I would say is probably if, if you could, you know, look at your other Dows, I would, I would say that there is a, a whole lot of agreement about the way in which you should go about this thing, because a lot of people go something's really wrong. And then they go, you know what it is, it's just one thing. And then let's solve that one problem. And then there's like, the real problem is a thousand things, but, you know, you don't, you don't do the work to, to document those thousand things much less put in, you know, systems in place that would allow you to evolve and subvert and, and, and, and heal and, and deal with all of the, those other 999 things. Right?  
Speaker 3    01:11:11    So that's what I know what, what I find, and that's why decontextualized colonized systems work so well is because if you, if nobody knows anything about themselves or the systems on which any of this stuff is built, I mean, look at the financial system. Now, the nightmare that is moving from the current financial system to cryptocurrency is really difficult because all of the security, all of the other stuff is all on you. There's just this massive learning curve that you're not interested in learning about. The, the, the metaphor I often use is, is if anyone's ever read Isaac AOVs the IBO series, the protagonist in that, in that film or book series suddenly realizes that there is a problem with the robots. And the thing that he has to do is to teach he's robots have existed for generations. He doesn't even know how to dress himself anymore because it's been done with the assistance of robots for his whole life.  
Speaker 3    01:12:08    And so his way of rebelling against the system is to teach himself how to dress himself in the morning without the help of a robot. So this is, this is the problem. We are all in, in the financial system and, and in the political system and in caring for ourselves and in mental health. And even when we try to organize away from these kinds of things, the pervasive ignorance that has existed, that is purposeful, is still going to affect us. And so for me, all of this stuff is banding to get to educate as opposed to almost anything else. So, does that give you, does that answer your question, Walter?  
Speaker 9    01:12:49    No, not particularly. Sorry. No, that's quite right. Because like I said, I'm, I'm only interested to figure out about DAO and, you know, again, I'm still looking for a successful way to build DAO and it'll help if I actually were to find a successful DAO and I'm yet to, to have that wonderful experience. So I'm kind of curious then turning around and looking at this. I just haven't seen at that time in those ecosystems, any progressing, forget about sustainable and somewhat successful, but even like first months type of activities, any course based or political action dos and you would think, and not, it's just doesn't seem to, to be the vehicle.  
Speaker 3    01:14:04    Well, I see DAO as in a digital, intentional community, right. And most intentional communities, either a centralized premise or, and it also depends on what you define success with. Right. So, you know, how is it that you define success success according to the current setup or success, according to the Delta of change success, according to the end result, like, you know, I mean, one could say that a revolution is a, is a success, right? So, you know, you've had let them meat cake, and then they, you know, now Frances revolutionary, but, but they didn't, they didn't change anything really. There was no underlying change in the structure of that, you know, you had the Russian revolution, but then what really changed there? Nothing, you know what I mean? Like, like you just re they're just reproducing the system with different people at the top of it, right.  
Speaker 3    01:14:58    Using different pretexts for the same abuse. Right. So you're calling yourself comrade, whatever, but are you right? How are you're still above everyone else? Right. So, so I guess, you know, I'm just pointing out my, my view of both intentional communities, which I, 20 years experience that and, and, and DAO. So I do think it really depends on what your version of success is, right. If success is just, you know, throw the passwords out and you're just recreating the system, I don't know that that success, but I guess we can all have different definitions for that. So any other questions please I'd like  
Speaker 9    01:15:44    Following on that line of thoughts is success defined by the DAO membership, which would be my preference or by some perception of the ecosystem or by some wider, whatever societal means. And of course, to me, the autonomous and kind of self-governing self-determined approaches would imply that the totality of membership in this organizational structure should be defining of their just like they're defining their goals. That should be also defining of measuring successes.  
Speaker 3    01:16:33    Yeah. I, I totally agree with you all I've just making an observation about is just that all of the groups that I've seen that jump out of the step one into step C, three, saying that we're gonna do all this ourselves and everything else without a kind of requisite wisdom and understanding of what it actually takes to get there end up sort of failing by their own measurements later on. And then they also don't have any idea why it failed. Right. They they're just very unconscious about, well, you know, we, we thought we did everything right. And, and, but, but it wasn't, it wasn't enough. Go ahead, Juan.  
Speaker 0    01:17:12    Yeah. I, I also think that we are living history in the making and that right now, like there are multiple formulas to create it out, but, but we are still continuing in the iteration and the evolution because we find ourselves with this really powerful tool toolings, but we find ourselves reproducing the same culture. So also we cannot give all of our hopes to the technology because technology is blind and who gives the sense of technology is the humans behind it. So working on, on, on the humans is, is the way that we think that we will end up eventually finding the best recipe for these new institutions. But yeah, it's, it's just an intentional change that needs to be done in the humans so that the technology can, can, can be used ethically and, and for the impact and of the wellbeing of humanity.  
Speaker 3    01:18:27    And this reminds me of Astra Taylor's work a S T a Astra Taylor. She's a person who's written a couple of books and has a couple of movies like documentaries about democracy. And she did a great interview on CBC radio. You might wanna look that up, CBC radio, Astra Taylor. And I think the title of it is democracy may not exist, but will miss it when it's gone. You know, the way that I describe sort of people talk about democracy. Like it's an object when in fact it's a kind of 10 ity system, right? It's a system that mains its maintains itself through tension. So if you, the metaphor I always use is if you pick up a handful of sand, right? If you squeeze it too hard, like an authoritarian, then it runs through the, your fingers. If you just let it out too much, you know, like an anarchist would, you know, then the sand also runs to your fingers.  
Speaker 3    01:19:26    There's a kind of a perfect amount of tension, which exists to maintain the integrity of the thing. Do you know what I mean? And that, that changes because there are all the time pieces of sand being added and pieces of sand being, being moved out of the thing. So you have to have kind of an appropriate way of dealing with that. So, and, and this funny thing is, is that the human body is also a Ted Ty system maintains itself against Gravity through, through tension. And there's there's systems that like Ostrom. So if I'm squeezing here, I'm putting in a lot of power, but the thing that's monitoring the mutual monitoring system is actually the parasympathetic nervous system inside. So I find that there are parallels between society and, and the nature of physics and other things too. And I think we, we should probably, you know, be more mindful about obeying some of those structural things, because the way the unity shows up in the duality, you, you need to be able to find that.  
Speaker 3    01:20:28    And that for me is my physical integrity is maintained by the unity of, of the opposites as it stacks up through my whole body. And so when I teach yoga, I often teach about that, but it's true mentally. It's true societally. It's true. And that's why I came down to this left and right brain hot. The yoga is about sun, which is the left brain ha, which is the sun and left brain TA, which is moon. And so that's, you know, that's the psychology, that's also physiology. And so from my perspective, you, you need to stack all of those things up in a coherent way to make it work. So, yeah, and, and again, it is evolving all the time, but many of the forces are the same. So even if I evolve and end up with six arms instead, you know, a thousand generations from now, Gravity is still all gonna be here. You know what I mean? And my I'm still gonna have to move all of those arms in the same way. So, you know, anyway, so I hope that's not too obscure metaphor, but are there any other questions or, or anything else Bruno, I see you Z here who goes here, you have questions or comments.  
Speaker 10    01:21:43    I don't really have any questions, but I do have a comment as far as just stressing, like the importance of everything that you're teaching here regarding DAO. I know even within, you know, the, just the word decentralization on, on, on its own is, you know, kind of gives that inner out, you know, type of, you know, focus on the inside and push out and, and you really do see it. It's very evident when it comes out to dealing with people. Cause you know, I'm in a DAO 40 acres DAO that like is, you know, pretty much focused on, you know, people of color. So a lot of those, a lot of those problems that you, you face within like the community, you face, everyone you're gonna face within business. Whether, you know, no matter what your DAO was doing. And I see that from DAO down, you know, it doesn't even matter.  
Speaker 10    01:22:38    So I, I just wanted to, you know, say obviously I appreciate everything that you're doing here. You know, everyone who's listening understand, like if you are trying to get a DAO open, you know, to start a DAO, these things are extremely important when it comes down to community building, especially when, when it's, when it's a legitimate community, you know, if you want to come in and make a fake DAO and like close everything off and make everything, you know? Yeah. That's, that's, that's a lot easier than what's going on as far as that's why these things are so important. That's why you don't see things like this within regular structures. Cause it, it's not new. It's not common. They don't really care that much about what the individuals doing, you know? So  
Speaker 3    01:23:23    Yeah, no, one's caring for the comments, right? So you have to care for the comments, the individuals and the systems all simultaneously, you have to do all three of those things, right? So it seems to me that, that in our society, we basically, we set up asymmetric systems that cares only for maybe 2000 people or around the whole world. Do you know what I mean? And all the other systems are set to Cate and aggregate wealth for, and power and, and influence for that small group of people. And so, you know, decolonization is about sort of, yeah, decentralizing recontextualizing, you have to do all of those things at once and you can't just show up in a place and go, yay. We're all together. And we all look the same, so we should be able to accomplish, you know, the healing, the, all of these things all simultaneously that just, you know, that's, unless you're intentional and that you've, you've, you've inventoried the whole space, you know, about what it's gonna take to get there.  
Speaker 3    01:24:25    It's gonna be much more of a challenge because that gives an opening to the, the extractive abusive side to either show up unconsciously within you and you'll sabotage your own interest unconsciously, or, I mean, there's just so many ways in which, you know, the, the, that system is set up to prevent dissent or, or anything else, you know? So it's a very big challenge. And so, and it is complex, right? Cuz life is complex and the colonized systems have had 500 years to set up these unequal asymmetric systems, you know, for us. So we have to do something about trying to make sure that we catch all of the tricks, right? So it's a little bit like a magician in a way, you know, the thing that you experience on the one side of his magic and you have no idea how it happened. It doesn't make sense, but for a magician, it's just a series of technical steps.  
Speaker 3    01:25:19    Right? And so for me, what I'm I'm interested in is creating an environment in which people can become magicians, where they see the technical steps, but they also enjoy the creation of, of that feeling of magic in other people. Right. And, and so, and then at the same time, Hey, you know what, let me come, tell you how it's done. And so that you don't fall for the trick every time. Right? It doesn't mean you, you can't enjoy the magic of the series of technical steps or the practice that it takes to be good at them. But it just means that you're not a fool about it. What's up.  
Speaker 0    01:26:07    I think we can wrap up this session.  
Speaker 3    01:26:11    Okay.  
Speaker 0    01:26:12    Thank you. Doga and yeah. Thanks everyone for staying. And I hope you, you like this and we see you in the next week, on the next session of the growth and training.  
Speaker 3    01:26:29    Thanks everyone. Thanks Walter. For your great questions and everyone who asks questions. I appreciate that.  
Speaker 0    01:26:34    Thanks everyone. See you later.  
Speaker 3    01:26:36    See you later.  
Speaker 0    01:26:39    Thank you.  
Speaker 3    01:26:39    Bye-bye bye. 
