Speaker 0    00:00:00    Present now I do see it. Yeah.  
Speaker 1    00:00:02    Sweet. That's that should, that should be all you need.  
Speaker 2    00:00:07    Welcome everyone.  
Speaker 0    00:00:09    Welcome.  
Speaker 1    00:00:11    It's a nice like microphone. You got that.  
Speaker 2    00:00:14    Oh, thank you. It's only $250 for the microphone. This Samsung G track pro. I  
Speaker 1    00:00:21    Love it. So like you need two, like a good voice for that. You have like a very like smooth radio presented.  
Speaker 2    00:00:26    Yeah. Thank you. Well, thank you, darling. No, I mean, it's just, it's, it's such a comprehensive microphone for USB microphone. It's interface, you know, it's got mono figure eight Omni car. It's got a mono on the back and fourth input Jack, and then, you know, this was probably the most expensive piece was the spider Mount. Thank you though. Yeah, I'm sort of a audio file, but let's get back to business.  
Speaker 0    00:00:58    Okay. So I'm going to move everybody over here. All right. So can everyone see the, the big version of this?  
Speaker 1    00:01:07    Yep. Coming in clear  
Speaker 2    00:01:08    Looking good. Beautiful.  
Speaker 0    00:01:11    Okay, so I'm just gonna start. So this is sort of the very first real presentation I've done on all this. I've spent the last 10 or so years gathering this information and particularly in the last five years. And some of that comes from the fact that I started about that time to work at a, at a native band. And simultaneously my wife, who is, who has a gold medal in the Commonwealth games is civil medal in the, in the pan am games in a bronze medal in the Olympic games was basically chased out of her teaching profession due to racism. And so the sort of combination of those two things along with the election of Donald Trump, which brought up the post-traumatic stress from my own narcissistic father, who is functionally identical to him, and all of these things sort of created this tension within me a little bit.  
Speaker 0    00:02:15    Like we talk about spiral dynamics where there's this real sort of desire to understand what's going on. And simultaneously I was in a yellow period. If any of you guys know about SPR dynamics. So basically I, I applied myself to that problem and realized that really at the end of the day, being that I may essentially a privileged white guy in this world with surrounded by oodles of technology. I, I have an enormous opportunity to subvert my privilege if I can just understand what it is. I'm also on the autism spectrum and have suffered for many years from just thinking differently, according to the culture that we live in. And I think basically everybody on this call probably suffers in some way from that, regardless of who they are or what they look like, because it's the nature of the culture itself. And so my thought about what to do about that was that I basically needed to accept responsibility for this.  
Speaker 0    00:03:32    So thus the name of the, the name of the, the book, which I'm basically gonna write on the BA on the back of this series of workshops that I hope to give. Additionally, I also started working with last year before the pandemic, the educational wing of couch and tribes to try to talk about workshops that we could put people through who wanted to have relationships with couch and tribes, to get them to understand what the, the actual underlying issue was. Also on top of that, there is this need to decolonize with respect to yoga, because yoga comes from India, which is a colonized country. And there are a lot of sort of issues with that. This thing has a fair number of slides. The, the, the PowerPoint presentation will be available in the slack channel after maybe somebody can put in the spirals.blog for folks, if they want to join that, or if you have the link to the slack channel, that'd be great. So you could download. Yeah, I just posted  
Speaker 1    00:04:50    It. I just posted that in there.  
Speaker 0    00:04:51    The PowerPoint has a lot of additional resources, YouTube videos, to a lot of things that I'm gonna be talking about. A lot of other resources. I could've included a lot more, but this is basically two days work, so it will improve over time. So, so my name's Regis Chapman, you can call me Durga dos. I spent 10 years building this building. You kind see behind me, it's all made outta mud and clay and straw and fantastic. I, so I'm, I'm also working with some of the other people on this call in various capacities, Sean, with his cryptocurrency company, grace, we're working together on trying to talk about autism together. And so I'll just get started. So those of you who saw the video with Jill Bolty Taylor, hopefully it was inspiring for you. And one of the reasons why I asked everybody who came into this to watch this was cuz I was gonna basically start off sort of assuming that you'd watched it to speak about this from the perspective of Jill Bolte Taylors, two different ways to think, right?  
Speaker 0    00:06:09    So there's also a link to the stroke of inside video here. If you guys download the PowerPoint later, essentially the, for those of you who haven't seen it, they're basically the, the divided mind basically thinks in terms of like a serial processor with linear thought the, the right brain as functions, more like a, a parallel processor with non-linear thought the, the divided left brain thinks in terms of patterns past and projections, the unified mind on the right side thinks only in terms of now what the now looks like and smells like and tastes like. And it is the sort of ultimate co contextualize because it literally has no concept of the slightest amount of differences whatsoever. It can't even tell the difference between one thing and another, it only knows about the perpetual. Now the divided mind thinks in terms of language and details and differentiation and more details about all of this, the unified mind can't differentiate.  
Speaker 0    00:07:15    As I mentioned before, visual processing of the divided mind, the left mind is focused a lot on objects. Visual processing on the right hemisphere of the brain is much more focused on relationships. And we'll get into this more metaphorically. I've included this idea of the difference between the cm, Y K and RGB color models. For those of you who have any idea, what that is, the cm YK thing is basically an additive model or a it's added in terms of reflection, cm, YK produces black, whereas RGB monitors from the, like we're looking at all that in with respect to these monitors produces white. So it's important to kind of understand how those things work. The only difference between RGB and cm, Y K and the unified and divided mind is that the RGB and cm, Y K can be roughly considered to be a, a duality.  
Speaker 0    00:08:19    Whereas even though there are two ways to think the United unified and divided approaches to thinking should not. And I repeat should not be misunderstood as opposing things, the unified mind essentially swallows the entire divided way of thinking in its entirety. Okay. It is, it is the ultimate context in which the divided mind understands and projects itself. So from, in terms of a, a metaphor, you could think about the divided mind is like the, the movie projector, whereas the unified mind is like the screen upon which that movie is projected. So for example, if you project a violent movie with a lot of guns and John WIC, you know, sort of activity there, the, the screen itself does not, does not get full of holes, nor does it take any knife wounds or nor does it bleed. So it is in many ways sort of detached from the divided mine, and can't really be affected by that.  
Speaker 0    00:09:32    And those of you're familiar with yoga and advice to Viant and other non-dual spiritual philosophies you'll understand that it is in in fact, these contexts in which this sort of bicameral mind is allowing us to lend the world. And we'll speak about that quite a lot. I also put externalization of costs and the, because we're gonna talk an awful lot about the problems with the, the divided way of thinking now. And one of the things that the divided mind will tend to do is to sort of be in denial. It's also the thing, which is responsible for ethics. That is to say that, which concerns me, it's the in individual self. So if I'm talking about myself in terms of a, of a social context, my choices as relates to what I choose to connect with, for example, you all chose to show up into this group right now, your was your ethical sort of choice to connect with this group and, and be engaged with this group.  
Speaker 0    00:10:42    Whereas morality is much more of a, a social thing. And then the unified side, we've got sort of responsibility. That is to say, because it is the ultimate co contextualize. It is the thing which gives us the ability to sort of overcome all these divide, divided ways of thinking and generate abilities to respond to things in with detachment and, and understanding because the unified mind also doesn't have anything like memory it only knows about now. So there are an awful lot of things in here, and I'd like you guys to download this, just to sort of read this, but if I divide up sort of the social forms of colonizer thinking, basically the divided mind you've got, if you're ratifying and validating the divided mind, you're gonna end up with the colonizer worldview. On the other hand, before, when you had a, a world that was dominated by unified social forms, you could have somebody like genus con you know, go blazing through your history and still kind of recover from that because the, the unified worldviews were, were essentially the most common thing that existed.  
Speaker 0    00:12:09    And so from there, you can see that the divided cultures essentially can't survive for very long, unless they actually sort of colonize really. And, and there are many forms of colonization we'll kind of talk about, but on the other hand, the divided cultures, unified cultures tend to be sort of appropriated and, and treated poorly. And, and even to the, to the degree, to which they're genocide, you can also take a look at it with respect to the compare and contrast between the divided Abrahamic traditions with their sky gods and the shamonic and dharmic traditions, which basically contextualize the earth, the sky, the universe, the planets, all those things kind of in a totality, as opposed to just a bunch of different objects, the most important thing to go ahead.  
Speaker 1    00:13:09    I was gonna say, I have a question on this. Yeah. Is that, is that kind of related a little bit to like the spirals eye and lead, if you will, like this, I  
Speaker 0    00:13:18    Is, that is absolutely the truth. And, and that was gonna be something I was gonna mention when we got down to the, the spiral dynamics. I'm sorry. Slide, but no, it is, please do ask questions. I it's really important that you guys feel engaged and yeah. So I don't want to just kind of read to you off of this thing. You can probably see this, I'd like there to be some engagement. It's also true that the divided mind basically has been taken over by this kind of merchant thinking. And so we basically assess objects in divided cultures in divided social forms, using this thing called value. And those values basically are, have to do with like a monetary exchange. And for those of you who are, are dealing with things in terms of cryptocurrency and who have encountered me with respect to my perspective on cryptocurrencies, you'll see that what I'm attempting to do is sort of relentlessly contextualize the nature of the work that we're doing in the cryptocurrency space, so that we don't make this kind of a colonizer mistake and to bring forth the legacy code base, which is very much divided.  
Speaker 0    00:14:41    And you'll actually see that comprehensively throughout this entire presentation.  
Speaker 0    00:14:48    So the other thing is, is that the language itself is incredibly influenced by this merchant's assessing objects using value. It creates a highly technical language that is extremely appropriate for that type of that type of cultural context in which you would assess things like that to, to the degree, to which we, we even think of our own psychology and the words we use in our psychology and the entire way that psychology is constructed in our culture. And I literally mean this from the entire history of psych psychia, psychiatry, and psychology in terms of value and worth. And it's, it's actually extraordinary. But once you, once, by the way, I'm just warning you that once you start to see the, this stuff, it's really, really difficult to unsee it. So this is a little bit like the matrix. So I'm just warning you ahead of time.  
Speaker 0    00:15:58    There are some difficult truths that I'm gonna need to talk to you about with respect to this. And there's an awful lot of things that I could, could have included in here, including a lot of the resources, for example, that Juan Carlos gave me about many stories about sort of the process of decolonization on the part of the hundred plus countries that declared independence days from various European colonies. But I didn't include any of that later versions of this will include many links to, to that sort of thing, but, but I'd just like you to understand that that English in particular is a, is an extremely good language for technical topics and is extremely good for sort of mercantilism and other things. Whereas things like Sanskrit are much better at things. So in many ways you could, you could think about it in terms of there's additional bifurcation in terms of language.  
Speaker 0    00:17:11    And it should be noted that Sanskrit is considered the, the world's most natural language, according to artificial intelligence research. For those of you who are in the sort of crypto AI space, additionally, it, the divided mind tends to create hierarchies by default and, and basically whole arches, which are talked about in the Aqua version of spiral dynamics of Ken Wilbur. They're largely considered to be impossible just because we've repeated this hierarchical way of thinking. So often that it's almost difficult to think of things in terms of anything other than a sort of a series of flatland hierarchical objects, the, the differentiation between the divided, the unified mine, culturally, cuz we're talking about social forms here.  
Speaker 0    00:18:13    If you read Jonathan hates book, for example, he actually speaks about this too. Even visual perception is affected by this and the inevitable results of like carte and thinking for example, are even felt in Al and philosophies and other things. And you can see that stuff really, really clearly. If anybody wants a, a primer on how to resolve the philosophical problem between the unified and the divided, I have a, a specific link that I can give you about dealing with that, that will solve that problem for you'll be a resource for you to kind of decolonize your mind if you're a philosophical thinker, the psychological effects, like I said, of these cultural influences and I'll actually link to these later, even to famous psychological journals, even speak directly to this problem. And then people who think about things in terms of a unified way of thinking, particularly in recolonized unified cultures, the psychological effect of thinking this way tends to result in inevitably in an overview effect, as opposed to narcissism, which is the inevitable outcome of the divided way of thinking.  
Speaker 0    00:19:35    And the overview effect you guys may or may not understand is something that is often experienced by astronauts who go up into space and realize that, you know, they're going around 19 times a day and everyone who's ever lived and all the drama and politics that have ever occurred. And the entire of human history is all this, just this one unified ball. And it's this one kind of thing that tends to detach your mind from thinking about things in terms of the divided countries and things, and, and gives you this kind of overview effect. It's possible to achieve that just with yoga and thinking about things relentlessly in terms of a unified approach. It also redefines the, the nature of good and evil. So for example, in, in Hinduism, good and evil actually don't exist at all. There really just a way of thinking, good would be inclusive thinking and behavior evil is exclusive thinking and behavior, but even then the evil is explained away in terms of the good, the larger good, and so that you can actually see the cultural framework doesn't even accept this so-called classic philosophical problem of evil simply just doesn't exist.  
Speaker 0    00:20:53    You know, the idea that if there was a deity, how could a deity let, let so many horrible things happen? Well, I'm specifically telling you explicitly that the reason why bad things happen is because of this bifurcation and the cultural emphasis and imbalance that is present in our current culture. And that should just be obvious just by watching current events, any questions on the social forum side of this picture?  
Speaker 1    00:21:26    Yeah. So I think towards the end of that, what you're saying there, where this, you know, this Hindu, if you wanna say like the Hindu approach, obviously that extends to, to larger things as well, but that's, that's kind of what you were talking about earlier where like this unified consciousness actually explains a way that divided consciousness and even creates space for it.  
Speaker 0    00:21:43    That's right.  
Speaker 1    00:21:44    In a sense it's like, yeah. So  
Speaker 0    00:21:46    That's absolutely true. Yeah. And, and in fact it, what what's, what's more than that, it actually allows for the complexity of the divided to be discovered in this comprehensive manner. Right? So the, even to the degree to which, and I think this is talked about maybe in the next slide where you can actually take a look at the intellectual approach. And the thing that I'm talking about here is, is that the word myth has been largely corrupted by the divided way of thinking and educational thinking. But what mythologies actually are, are, is very much like spiral dynamics. You can think of, for example, this deity behind me, Lord Ramma Lord Rama would be a kind of framework upon which you can project an a truly staggering amount of complexity to the point of understanding astronomy psychology. I mean, it just goes on and on and on and on. And then the, the relationships between the different characters in these things also then elucidate other kinds of mythological relationships. And this is true to a degree that it said that the Maha Brata contains every possible human experience.  
Speaker 0    00:23:14    And so it's appropriate that it is in fact, the largest mythological or the largest book really in existence beyond that it was a, is an oral tradition. So, so if you carry this into the intellectual side of the picture, what you can see is kind of in many ways, the sort of the approach of science on the left side, and there, I've got some links to Rupert Sheri's science delusion, which kind of talks about some of these things and his advice around approaches to unify science again, and to make it, you know, more expansive, but basically to summarize their, the, the educational system in the divided cultural context is exclusively focused on external objects. I I'd like to see a, somebody unmute themselves. And tell me if you have ever once been asked, if you felt how you felt about participating in the, the Western educational system, if any, no one on meeting themselves. That's basically, according to my expectation,  
Speaker 3    00:24:40    I would say yes.  
Speaker 0    00:24:41    You would say yes,  
Speaker 3    00:24:42    Only within the last year. Right. And that's, and that's, and Andre, just, you are aware of the program I'm in, so yes,  
Speaker 0    00:24:50    It's, it's it's the most.  
Speaker 3    00:24:52    Yeah.  
Speaker 0    00:24:53    Yeah. And so, yeah, I mean, I would say maybe grace would also agree with that because she's in the Antioch university thing too. And so that's quite a lot more progressive than many other things, but if you actually later in the thing, there'll be some, there'll be links to Marshall Rosenberg's entire audio book. And he actually speaks about how he went through like 20 plus years of, of, you know, including like a PhD. And he was never once asked how he felt about participating in that system. And so, so basically the thing that I'm I'm attempting to show is that the educational system of the divided is one that has a giant hole in the middle. And that giant hole in the middle is you. Whereas the, the educational system of a unified way of thinking is exclusively focused on the student and their mind's relationship with the external and how they have to play these different roles within, within their relationship with themselves to understand, you know, their shadow selves and other things, how they have their relationship with their family unit, but the social fabric, the world itself, and then the sort of larger diffuse mysterious universe.  
Speaker 0    00:26:16    Right? And so by paying attention to how the mind lenses reality one can actually gain an understanding, not only about the, a deeper understanding about the nature of the external reality that the divided mind's trying to talk to you about, but also about your relationship with it.  
Speaker 0    00:26:41    So there's also some other sort of assertions that the divided intellectual approach takes. Like for example, they tend to completely distrust the mind and like, to people like who's the well there's Richard Dawkins, but he has a, there's a magician guy in Britain. What's his name, Darren brown, Darren brown, who likes to show the, the, the fundamental problems with the perception, right? And, and that's the kind of divided way of thinking. Whereas the unified mind solved the, the, the problem of objectivity and subjectivity several thousand years ago, we don't have to keep going on television to point out the fact that this subjectivity objectivity problem exists. We, and you can't actually solve these subjectivity objectivity issue with a divided form of thinking. It requires that you adopt and ratify a unified way of thinking. Additionally, the divided way of thinking has a, a crucial flaw in that, that what you believe is the primary thing, you know, your beliefs, it's gotten to the point, I've almost got 5,000 answers on core.  
Speaker 0    00:28:10    At this point, it's gotten to the point where I won't even answer a question with the word belief in it, because it just drives me so crazy and doesn't make any sense at all, because my thinking is all in terms of, I, I have a, a, a unified approach, which includes the, the unified and then divided, but I'm just tired of answering people whose minds are completely taken over by the divided. I would rather speak to people who have at least an inkling of the, the nature of the unified way of thinking. So, and it's also true that divided cultures are understood by unified cultures as immature expressions of a whole, even while suffering under the, the abuse that the divided cultures have given out in the last thousand years. So, and, and one of the primary approaches about unified knowledge is to subvert belief altogether.  
Speaker 0    00:29:07    This is the primary means of knowledge for a unified thinker. And there's a story about the traditional way to deal with the guru system is that a parent would send its their child a way to an ashram or to a, a local teacher at age eight. And they would return at age 20. And the, the real question, the only real question that needs to be answered by this student when they come back to their parents, is did you learn the knowledge that being known, nothing else remains to know. And so this is very clear evidence of a cultural, a framework, which sets up the unified approach to thinking versus being right adhering to a social contract, adhering to the various levels of hierarchy. Even with intellectuals, they assess concepts, values, and objects using this term value generally based on the orthodoxy of their culture, inevitably resulting in an imbalance of thinking.  
Speaker 0    00:30:23    And even to the degree that that scientists themselves tend to like hard sciences versus psychology or, or like history, like it's unbelievable the degree to which history has been revised, not only due to the horrific nature of colonization, but also just everything else. I mean, take a look at the pyramids. They used saws. There's no way to, you know what I'm saying? Like, sorry, that just happened. But we've got this whole revisionist history that says that couldn't have happened. And so, yeah, I mean, there's just, it's all about, you know, reductionist approaches, whereas the unified intellectual approach would prioritize contextualization above all other things and the whole Cartesian way of thinking. I think therefore I am is actually seen correctly in non-dual Viant as I am first, therefore I think because existence precedes thought, and this is an incredibly important differentiation.  
Speaker 0    00:31:34    Okay. So I just wanted to point out the, the, the subtitle that I had here taking responsibility in a post-truth post-race post colonization era. Now it's interesting because those things don't actually exist. There is no such thing as a post-truth society. There's no such thing as post-race society, and there's no such thing as a post colonization society. All of those things continue to have huge imbalances. And I, I put it in there because I wanted to see if anyone would notice and it's based on their, their basic perception of the world, right? And we're gonna get into that, the nature of privilege and other stuff in a bit, all of this comes down to, and this is my fundamental assertion with this entire topic. And that is that all of these things are, are all, all of the reasons why all of this happens is because of this divided way of thinking, which has an inevitable outcome of narcissism. So my assertion is that colonization is a worldwide financial and governance level expression of narcissistic abuse and narcissistic abusers.  
Speaker 0    00:33:03    Now, if you just take a look at it in multiple context, you can talk about it from a person escaping an abusive partner in an intimate relationship, a person recovering like me from being raised by a narcissist social justice movements, environmentalist movements, even the cryptocurrency movement itself is an, an adaptive thing from the abuses of the financial system and the vast income inequalities and, and tying us to national currencies. And even Sean and I's work on with the spirit foundation is actually, it's an express thing to break off native cultures from their dependence on national currencies, which are fundamentally narcissistically abusive. And one of the components of narcissistic abuse is financial abuse. And so here we have it at the same time, I put in the thing about the, the independence days from England and other European countries worldwide, British leaving days, never out of season, there are something like a hun over a hundred of those throughout the world.  
Speaker 0    00:34:15    I mean, and given that there's only 150 countries, you have to think that's a fairly extraordinary thing. And every single one of those countries has some kind of story of the same kind of story as a person escaping the abusive partner and even all these books that Juan Carlos talked to me about all the stuff we're doing in the gravity group with the tech thing about resolving labor disputes and on and on it's all because this entire structure is all based in this narcissistic abuse at multiple levels, financial, physical, everything, everything, everything. And I mean, just take a look at the, the contrast between the way black lives matters. Protests are, are treated versus a literal invasion of democracy. It's really easy to see the, the literal black sheep of, of, of this particular country is that so additionally, you can see that if you take a look at the way European cultures are set up, they're set up in, in these dynasties. And basically all Kings and Queens are all related to each other across hundreds of years in England and Germany and Netherlands and everywhere.  
Speaker 0    00:35:47    And so given that all of these people are basically narcissists, what are, what are they gonna do when they go out and colonize other cultures? They're gonna essentially reproduce that same thing. I would say that as an assertion, that colonization is a now normalized expression of narcissistic abuse. Sadly, I picked, there is a, a link in here to the Wikipedia article on, on narcissistic abuse, but two of the ones that I'd like to point out here, one is this self-stigma the problem with narcissistic abuse is that you basically stigmatize yourself and all of your, your strategies around your life tend to revolve around the strategies of the narcissist basically resulting in this kind of duality of abuser and abused. And when you do that for generations across multiple layers of aspects of, of human life, you're basically gonna end up with a culture which DHIS that, and this modern theory here that you actually talk about is literally the, a psychological journal speaking about those tendencies directly. So that's kind of my evidence for that.  
Speaker 0    00:37:14    You can also see all of these, these things pretty obviously in the news right now, Trumpism is essentially that, that, and, you know, there's look, there was 75 million people that voted for that guy. So you have to think that there was a bunch of those folks who are narcissists and, and they had to come from somewhere. And, and there it is. So I'm not gonna spend any time on this, cuz it's a little too small, but this basically speaks about the cycle so that you guys can have a look at this. A lot of times this is put in terms of relationships, individuals, but I'm basically generalizing it to society.  
Speaker 0    00:37:57    So where do we end up with this? This is basically basically living a huge cult. That's the entire, the entire point of this is. And I said to you guys that there's gonna be some unpleasant truths here, but this is really, really true. And the thing is, is that what's important to me is to find a unified theory about how all these divisions work. It's not, it's not okay. For example, for me to come up with something like critical race theory, where I imagine that my race is the single most important aspect of my existence. When in fact the thing that's more fundamental is my, my mode of thinking. And if I'm thinking in terms of divided nature, then I'm gonna tend to abuse people on the basis of surface things and therefore to a person who's being abused. It might seem that that, that the pretext upon which that abuse is, is given to them is the single most important thing.  
Speaker 0    00:38:59    But in fact, it, it has a deeper aspect to it. And part of the reason why I'm, I'm bringing all this stuff up is, is that every single person in this room has some experience with that or another. And it's incredibly important to root that out within yourself to sort of decolonize yourself from within, but also to understand what you're going to encounter out into the, out in the world. And so I've included a couple of links to YouTube videos about what it's like to basically have a family cult. Like the one I grew up in, or the one that all of the, the Trump kids are in, for example, I have a lot of compassion for them because they're just in the bubble and they can't get out of it. I've got a whole bunch of family members who are trapped in the same bubble.  
Speaker 0    00:39:48    And when every time I go back, I have to steal myself and try to imagine that I'm gonna be able to be a, a compassionate voice for the, the suffering that they're going through on the basis of that. But the other thing is this thing called the pathology of privilege. Colonized humans basically operate in this limited and hollow self understanding like we talked about before due to the generational abuse, by the entire culture that is so pervasive that they can no longer perceive it or, or work to subvert. It it's basically privileges is a state of denial of reality with a social contract set up by narcissist that says that the person who's privilege will never be made to feel the actual consequences of their attitudes, bias or actions. This right here is the, the basis for almost every successful company on wall street today. So for example, if you take a look at Walmart, th that right there is the literal business plan of Walmart. They externalize all their costs onto everyone else.  
Speaker 0    00:41:02    The most successful companies on wall street today, do exactly the same thing. Now, this privilege look can actually only exist. If you think about it inside a systemic structure that is completely, totally defined by abuse in which a relatively less state of abuse is configured hierarchically. So that one perpetually fights for a higher privileged status to expect less abuse in one way or the other, and the privilege to abuse those who are lower than you. So what you can see from this is that defining and naming and assessing various overlapping hierarchies is the primary work of our own minds. So if I'm talking to you guys right now, I'm talking to you guys all have jobs, and you're all dealing with things. Some of you may be constructing and participating in hierarchical situations. You might wanna be aware of just how pervasive the hierarchical way of thinking is in the culture.  
Speaker 0    00:42:09    Tim wise has a great YouTube videos. My favorite YouTube video on how privileged blinds us and the notable mention that I'll have from this is that the journal of American medical association found that Americans have twice the incidence of anxiety disorders above the global average and five times that of Nigeria, which is almost constantly at war or having civil war or doing other things. Now, what kind of culture is it that would make it, so that, that even a comp a constructionally in the middle of war would have less anxiety than, than we do. I mean, I, there's just something really wrong with that. And I feel like I'm, I'm risking sort of pointing out all of this sort of bad news to everybody just so that we can correctly diagnose the problem, because if we don't know the problem exists, then we cannot be aware of it and we can't figure out what to do about it. We're gonna get into strategies about what to do about it in a bit, but I did wanna make sure that we are taking a look at the, the, the difficulty of it. So that was a bit of a difficult section there. Anybody have questions about any of that stuff?  
Speaker 4    00:43:33    I just wanted to ask that these slides are gonna be available at the end.  
Speaker 0    00:43:36    Yeah. Yeah. We'll, we'll put 'em in the, in the slack channel.  
Speaker 4    00:43:42    Cool. Perfect.  
Speaker 0    00:43:42    Thank you. And I'll yeah, I, I actually put links and things in here so that you guys could watch the videos and, and take a look at other stuff. So all of the sort of negative assessment to is incredibly important, so that you can sort of gain some kind of mindfulness about the, the nature of the, the overlapping hierarchies that we're dealing with. Right. And the way that we speak to each other. Now, what I'd like to do is, is sort of go into a, a thing about how, what, what can we, we can actually do about this, right? And the, the very first thing that, that we have to basically do is to be willing to look at those things and to get the history lesson. The difficulty is, is that because it's narcissistic abuse, as I mentioned in the previous slides, one of the, the, the, one of the fundamental aspects of this is manipulation, gas, lighting, you know, control and all these things.  
Speaker 0    00:44:50    So you're gonna have a difficult time finding the real history lesson, unless you go looking for it. And as a result, we, we, the reason why we have an incidence of so much anxiety and so much depression and everything is because the culture basically teaches us bys example through generations of this, that we're supposed to be in denial of all these things. And to forget about the fact that we bombed an entire town of rich black people out of existence in Tulsa, Oklahoma in the early 19 hundreds with we'd never done that in the entirety history of, of our, of our country, but we'd literally bombed them with bombers that had been used in the first world war. So it doesn't, but many people don't even know that that exists. And, and so in order to be able to get better and to get over depression, get over anxiety, you actually have to be able to be willing to look at that from a personal standpoint and from a societal standpoint.  
Speaker 0    00:45:50    And in order to do that, you have to come equipped with self-compassion self-compassion dot org is really great to resource for people who are struggling with that. But more than that, in order to extend compassion to others, which is by the way, a, a tonic against narcissism, one must be willing to extend it to yourself. First, this is the most important thing, and you need to be able to do it with quite some resolve and determination because society is typically not going to provide you with that kind of feedback. Additionally, I'd would suggest that you guys to find a way to create, self-compassion go to self-compassion dot org or to engage with nonviolent communication and or spiral dynamics and spiral dynamics becomes a lot more rich when you take a look at it in, in, in terms of nonviolent communication first, because one of the main precepts of nonviolent communication is to prevent people from creating enemy images out of each other.  
Speaker 0    00:47:02    So whether I'm a, a man or a woman or a trans person, or a, a, a black person or a brown person, or a person who speaks your language, or doesn't who looks differently, who thinks differently, who's an introvert or an extrovert. None of those things really matter to a person who thinks in a unified way. And it seems to me that nonviolent communication is a, a method by which you can figure out how to get from the divided cultural context over to the unified cultural context. And spiral dynamics is a really deep way to do that because instead of imagining that Billy Joe, Jim Bob is behaving in a certain way, because they're a jerk, you can say, well, maybe they're coming from this sort of red, you know, sort of perspective. And, and you know, that they grew up in a, in this kind of cultural context that doesn't help them to understand how these things work. And then you can give them tools and, and come to some kind of level of compassion, presuming that you've spent enough time to create compassion within yourself. So, additionally, ancient wisdom traditions actually outlined a way to become free and to in new what the potential harm that could exist with respect to this divided way of thinking. And they made a rational choice to, to create their entire culture around a setup that thought about things in terms of unified ways of thinking. But now we don't live in a society like that. And moreover, we basically went out and killed 90% of the people on the planet who thought like that. And so it's extremely difficult to get back to that now. So  
Speaker 1    00:49:01    Have a question around  
Speaker 0    00:49:02    That.  
Speaker 1    00:49:02    Yeah. Number one, how did, how did we digress or rather like, yeah. How, how, how did one part of the world not spread that? And, and, and essentially this, this divided thinking, how was that born? And so much of the world was the operating this unified thinking?  
Speaker 0    00:49:21    Well, my theory is, yeah, go  
Speaker 1    00:49:23    Ahead. And the second part is how do, like, if we are theoretically, do, would we do get to a place where we are in that unified place? How do we defend against divided thinking?  
Speaker 0    00:49:35    Well, see, and I would say that the, the thing that we're doing right now, right. We're gathering up in a group where we're all in different countries, we all live in different place. You know what I'm saying? Like, there's a bunch of us here from Canada, but there's, you're in, you're in Columbia now. I don't know where Chris is, but, you know, we, we, we, it doesn't really matter where we are. So we're, we're basically, we have like a virtual unification, which is occurring in this very context. Right. And so, so it, it always kind of starts like that. Right. But then this sort of colonization legacy code base tends to turn on and start to then, you know, like it did with the web, for example, and like it did with the internet itself where he just bought up all the lines and then everything gradually becomes centered.  
Speaker 0    00:50:24    The same thing with the news media. Right? So the point about this is that you, you have to be aware of the problems that can occur. You, you have to be aware of how bad that it can get, you know, genocides fairly horrible, right? So seems like the, the it's a small price for us to pay, to teach each other, how to be aware of the, the divided way of thinking that inevitably leads to this kind of thing. Right. And it leads to it all the time, everywhere, even when we're, when we're not conscious of it, because the culture is working on us in so many different ways, so often to make that happen. So for me, the, the nature of spirituality is it, it, we have to understand what the, the underlying spiritual stuff is, how the mind works and all this, but then to, to kind of figure out a way to choose that, like, like, like Jill Bolte, Taylor was kind of staying at the very end of the video, you know, which one of those things do you choose and when, and if all your, all your education has taught you is that you should ignore yourself and pay attention to what, what your culture prioritizes on your behalf.  
Speaker 0    00:51:49    That itself is fundamentally narcissistic abuse. That's what it is just that right there, the fact that you don't matter and is reinforced by the, the overall culture. And so what you basically have to do is in, in my case, I, I was offered a physics scholarship to Notre Dame when I came out of high school. And because I had been bullied for so long, by so many different people in so many different schools, I just said, I can't possibly ever go to another school. The, the physics professor himself was gonna pay for my education. I don't know if you understand how much money that is even back in the eighties, but that's hundreds of thousands of dollars to go to an Ivy league school, like Notre Dame. Right. He was gonna pay that because he talked to me on the phone for 15 minutes. So why didn't I wanna do that? That's because I understood that there was something that was really wrong with the educational system. I couldn't put myself into that situation. 
