# Introduction and Contextualization : Collective facilitation

**Season 03 Module 0 Session 01**

## Transcript

(00:05)    
**Speaker 0**:    Good evening, everyone. It's so great to see us. Many people here. Super excited. They'll start with what has become a bit of a habit in the Tuesday evening trainings, and that is an inclusive welcome word. I've written one for you for tonight. Welcome to all participants of the third Graviton training already. We start this training with an inclusive welcome, because we're going on a bit of a journey together for about 10 weeks. Every Tuesday, we will be working together, learning together. A very warm welcome to all of you. Well, welcome to all newcomers curious, open and full of expectations. Maybe you have some assumptions, maybe not. Maybe you are here because you're just curious or eager to learn, or maybe less eager to learn. Just wanna hang out a bit and see who are those crazy Graviton.  

(01:08)    
**Speaker 0**:    Welcome to everyone who was part of a previous training or maybe some meetings of, or Graviton. Thank you for coming back to learn more or maybe to contribute in one or more of the sessions, a special welcome to all genders in this call. Welcome to anyone who identifies themselves as a woman, a man, or neither welcome to queer straight lesbian gay B, or maybe you don't know yet. Maybe it's faces, maybe it's complex. Welcome who is imperfect health and welcome. Who has a disease visible or invisible, physical or psychological. It's all welcome here. Welcome to complexity. Welcome to diversity in voices, diversity in thoughts, diversity that change all the time. Super chaotic. Welcome to not knowing for sure. Welcome to doubt. Welcome to unanswered questions and welcome to diving deeper. Maybe via some research, maybe reading a book or listening to some people in the coming weeks.  

(02:27)    
**Speaker 0**:    Maybe they have some answers welcome to answers and learning that come from a deeper place. Learning while waiting. Maybe you learn while slowing down. Maybe it's a walking nature for you after this call or a conversation with a friend as a learning place. Then yeah, learning in uncomfortable situations, uncomfortable learning places, very underrated conflict. For example, arguments, friction, tensions all and all. It's an overwhelming intensity meeting ourselves in the other and what that can cause to you. As a learning point with this welcome, we invite you to feel whatever comes up inside of you and we invite you to embrace it. Your thoughts, your instincts, your deeper intuition. Maybe we invite you to share and embrace the unexpected learning that might happen in the coming weeks. It will ask some bravery from you at points. For this, we set a bit of a brief space. Before I go back to one, three mini rules. There is no monopoly on the truth you can be as right as another person. It's all fine. Everything's context. We are here to learn and we are open and we are here to connect. With this mindset, I give it back Towan to open the third Graviton session one back to  

(04:13)    
**Speaker 1**:    Thank you, Lynn. I hope that you all feel really included and part of this, because it's really a group effort that we are doing. Here we have a lot of people who have put their soul, their minds into the design of this training. That will also participate in the development of the sessions we have here. Lean, who you already met. We have Bianca who will be talking to us about the pops. That is the certification system that we have. We have Jeremy, that is our liberating structures master. We have DDA that we, that is our Nonviolent Communication and unified thinking guru. We have Alois also who is someone who will help us around inclusion and trauma informed culture. We also have Morgan and I see some familiar faces like Shawn Maximilian for, from the Agon community. You are all welcome here.  

(05:28)    
**Speaker 1**:    Also, the idea of this training is to have a very transversal invitation for the web three space to develop this topic that sometimes is overseen. That is our capacity to have healthy relationships with others. Even with ourselves and the capacity to manage complexity, that is something natural that we experience in every relationship. Yeah, with that, I will pass it to Bianca who will explain how our go, we going to deliver the pops. That is the certification for this training with the idea is that after you claim six of these pop-ups per each session one, you will be able to continue being part of this group and lead some of the educational activities. Also if you feel comfortable, you can request to be part of the mediators group. With that, you will be able to facilitate and mediate in conflict that we receive from DAO and why that is important. We will cover that later, but I will pass it to Bianca.  

(06:58)    
**Speaker 2**:    Thank you. Hello everybody. Or good morning or good night, depending where you're from. Huan. Can you pass me the host so I can share my screen please.  

(07:13)    
**Speaker 1**:    Okay. Let me a second. I am not so good with this.  

(07:22)    
**Speaker 2**:    Yes. Thank you. For the distribution of the app, we are using the secret word. You need to have the app in your phone or in your computer. If you all have the app in your phone or in your computer, you can put your hands up to let me know if you do it or not. Or you can put in the chat.  

(08:15)    
**Speaker 1**:    Yeah, 

(08:17)    
**Speaker 2**:    You need, yes. You need to have the app. Then there is this, it's like in here in the left bottom, there is mind and plus you click on it and then there is a secret word. Then you're gonna put in this secret word that shows in your screen. This is the app. Then you put the super word that it's your screen. Then you're gonna be able to claim your first for the session. Did it work?  

(09:08)    
**Speaker 1**:    Yes.  

(09:10)    
**Speaker 2**:    Yay. If it didn't work or if you have any trouble with it, you can put in the chat, it doesn't work in a browser. You have to have the app in your computer or in your phone.  

(09:32)    
**Speaker 5**:     

(09:34)    
**Speaker 2**:    And if you can't mind it, for some reason, let know you can write it down in a or something and then we can figure it out together, okay. To, 

(09:58)    
**Speaker 1**:    I will mute the mic that are open.  

(10:03)    
**Speaker 1**:    And I feel really excited because I see so many new faces and I would like to get to know more from all of you. One of the things that we struggle sometimes in these calls to hear everyone is that if we open the space for everyone to talk, now, we will spend like half an hour or 40 minutes just talking. We are using this toolbox, which Jeremy is really good at that it's called liberating structures. It allows us to have like the same dynamics, but using this toolbox to facilitate the controlling when the calls are too crowded. What we will do is that we will use a liberating structures. That is called one, two for all. What we will do is that we will split into breakout rooms and talk a bit about this question.  

(11:24)    
**Speaker 1**:    And what we will do is that we will talk in the small groups and then we will come to this big group. The people from the, from a leader, from the group, we'll talk some of the things that were shared in the small group. Also I didn't present myself. My name is Juan catalysts. I am Juan Bell. I am leading the working group in the TC and happily leading this training to develop skills around Nonviolent Communication around building trust, around having competence regard regarding conflict management. Yeah, I am super excited to have you all here. The guiding question for our activity is going to be these two questions that you can answer either one of them, the two of them together or separately. I will be pasting this in the chat. These are some of the questions. What are some of the common conflicts you experience in your everyday life? And also, what is your motivation around developing skills to manage conflict? We will be having, as I said before, breakout rooms, and we will talk about this. We will have like five minutes in the breakout rooms and then five minutes here sharing what we debriefed in the breakout rooms. Is everyone okay with that? And is it all clear?  

(13:19)    
**Speaker 1**:    Okay. The two questions I repeat them is what are some of the common conflicts you experience in your everyday life and what is your motivation around developing skills to manage conflict? I will create the breakout rooms. I  

(13:41)    
**Speaker 6**:    Just wanted to say, I don't recall if when we break out, we have this in a chat somewhere. I can't remember if that lives somewhere. Every time that I leave group saying or something shared, I usually copy down questions onto a notepad. I don't know if that's helpful for anyone else to hear, but just in case we hop over and the questions are gone, 

(14:02)    
**Speaker 1**:    I will send it again. Once we are in the breakout rooms and we will have four to five participants per each breakout room. Each one can have one minute to answer these questions. Then we will make a debrief when we come back. I will create them and it, they will be automatically assigned. Perfect.  

(15:42)    
**Speaker 7**:    My name is doya and I'm currently in Morocco, my answer, what are some of the common conflicts you experienced in everyday life? I was the first thing that came to mind is different expectations when there's like conflicting. What? And that encompasses a lot of different types of conflicts when there wasn't clear communication. So, and sometimes you don't even know you have certain expectation until it doesn't the situation doesn't meet, which I didn't mind that you didn't even know you had in mind last one. Then why I'm interested in this training, it's oh, not just training specifically skills to manage conflict. My approach to managing conflict in general is just listening, and echoing. That's all I do. I'm literally like a parrot. I find that actually it works really well. If you're quality of listening is very, is genuine, but I'm curious to enrich my toolbox and to exchange with others around what works and doesn't work and to practice as well. That's should I pass it to someone or should we do style  

(17:10)    
**Speaker 8**:    Pass it?  

(17:11)    
**Speaker 7**:    Oh, great. Because I was just gonna pass it to you.  

(17:15)    
**Speaker 8**:    Okay. Okay. Hi, I'm in condenser from Italy and common conflicts, I experience are the ones it could be like among friends or in Teamworks, where you have both cooperation and competition and the boundaries are not clear. When cooperation there's supposed to be cooperation, but there's also competition and then conflicts my eyes. The reason why I'm here well, because of course managing conflict is a very important skill, especially because we have the tendency. We might have the tendency of avoiding conflict sometime when we think that conflict can be painful. That was me and I pass it to  

(18:17)    
**Speaker 9**:    Thank you everyone, Mexico city, that my come on conflict every day is, as you mentioned, most of the time expectations from the near people around me, especially family, friends, I have learned when you have no expectations, the things are more simple and you can advance and you can solve most of the things in a faster way. I have that lesson that I can share. Why I'm interesting in this training is because the tendency is to be more inclusive and that means more complex. That means more conflicts and the people who had the skills to see that something normal, not like adversities an opportunity to grow is going to be the radical shift. That's what I am ING. I passed to Rainer.  
Speaker 10    00:19:52    Hi, there I'm Reiner. I'm from Germany, Vick in the south of Germany, some common conflicts. I'll make a very simple example. I have two small kids. They are seven and nine years old. There are conflicts all the time around autonomy, how much freedom to I give them? Where is my responsibility begin to protect them from something, how do we make decisions together? And so on. Even if I didn't have any work or any job, that would be a daily source of conflict. What's my motivation around developing skills in hierarchical organizations, it's on the surface, fairly easy to manage conflict because you can just delegate it up. You can say, boss, you sort it out. In DAO, there is no up often. You have to deal with it yourself or find someone who can help you to deal with it because otherwise there's no way for you to keep working together or grow together or develop together. That's what I'm curious about. It's lovely to be here. Thank you. I'll pass on to  
Speaker 11    00:21:05    Actually, Carl, are you able to get, go first? I'd love to hold space to hear everyone before I chime in. I'm just in a transitionary spot right now  

(21:18)    
**Speaker 1**:    For me, I experience conflict almost every day and every hour of my life, because I have conflict sometimes with my emotions. Some sometimes I have conflict with my thoughts. Sometimes I have conflict with others. Sometimes I have conflict with my context. I am someone who is very passionate about seeing conflict as something as an opportunity. That's why I also tend to see a lot of conflict. I also see conflict in our nation states, in our working environment. My real motivation to develop skills to manage conflict is to have a less violent world. That we have really abusive systems and that somehow we are right now transitioning into the DAO space that are new institutions. If we don't work in the cultural side of them, we might reproduce some of these abusive patterns. I want to have like an impact on this. Are you a available to talk now to  
Speaker 11    00:22:46    I am. I just didn't know if I was supposed to wait for you to pass it to me. I didn't know if you were complete. Thank you for that. My name's turquoise. I am currently in the Northern part of California in the us. How do I experience conflict? Well, most recently it's been in the context of de developmental process, facilitating coherent culture organizations. So I it's group coherence that's out of confidence is mostly what I'm looking at in terms of communication. My inquiry here is in part around conflict, but more around cohesion and as in cultural cohesion and kind, and consilience in creating like fields of resonance for people to do things together. So this is, I was just invited by Jeremy and ERDA to hop in and over here, cause Jeremy helps over at liminal DAO. In some other spaces, I work in the integral world. So I'm just hopping into to see what's going on over here. Thank you for having me.  

(24:18)    
**Speaker 1**:    Thank you all for speaking this short time. I will create the big room again so that we can hear what the others talked. See you there.  
Speaker 11    00:24:36    Thank you.  

(25:23)    
**Speaker 1**:    How did the exercise go for you who wants to share something that they found relevant in the activity?  
Speaker 12    00:25:41    This meeting is being recorded.  

(25:43)    
**Speaker 1**:    Thanks internet lady.  
Speaker 13    00:25:47    I can share just some reflections. I thought it was really incredible to hear all the perspectives being so aligned with my own, which is really surprising. There's a lot of,, a recognition for deep listening that is desired by, a lot of people, or at least the people that I spoke with and this effort to come together and learn techniques in order to allow for more space to actually hear people when they're speaking is a really a great drive and push. Really excited to open up with that and start learning more  

(26:38)    
**Speaker 1**:    Who from other group wants to share their experience. We will have some more minutes around this and I only participated in one group. I would really like to hear from the other people, 
Speaker 14    00:26:57    My name, sorry, my name is Ari. I'm here from Odyssey DAO, and we are an educational DAO. Something that we were discussing was how do we bring conflict resolution into DAOs. What does that look like? Especially when you have you're leveraging communities pretty early on in an organizational life cycle. Yeah, my teammates, I had two in my breakout room that were from another DAO, and then I didn't catch the, our last teammate who, what DAO they were in, but everyone, the consensus was learning how to apply conflict resolution skillset into the DAO. What does that look like in web  

(27:52)    
**Speaker 3**:    3, 1  
Speaker 16    00:28:01    Consistent theme that echoed throughout all of the participants in my breakout room was that a lot of conflict. Some conflict is just born out of a difference of opinion, but the least productive conflict and the most intense or unhelpful conflict was usually around people, miscommunicating or not communicating their ideas or desires or needs. Also assuming that they understood what another person meant or wanted, what they not necessarily did. That was an interesting thing that in our own ways, all of us, more or less hinted at miscommunication being a key source of conflict.  
Speaker 15    00:28:46    And I agree with that. We came to the same conclusion in our group as well. It was between that. Then we also had like cultural and language differences as well. Between cultures, there can be sometimes misunderstandings and then same thing. Obviously, if someone speaks a different language, then that can be a huge Flocker as well. All of us were, are here to just understand conflict resolution and to learn so that we can apply these things in our own lives.  

(29:21)    
**Speaker 1**:    That's amazing. That's amazing. Who wants to share? We have like two minute, two more minutes on this, and then we will continue with agenda. Okay. I can share, oh, something really short. From my group, I loved that someone talked about the, that even if you don't work in a, in an environment, you can experience conflict every day at your house. If you have children, if you have a relationship with brother, sister, mother, parent, boyfriend, girlfriend, friends, we are always negotiating and facing that. The reality is not what, only what we think of it, but that we have that other person who is equally valid, who is equally feel who has like the same feelings that than you, and that the conflict arises with within that relationship. That it's not only with work, but it's something that we can see in every relationship and yeah. Spectra, I'll pass it to you.  

(30:57)    
**Speaker 9**:    I was in the group with Pinton and Adrian. Yes. You think you experience everyday conflicts. If you have kids wait till you have teenage kids, but yes. My main motivation is to see how it would work in a DAO environment because it's brand new. Basically there are no set rules. I just wanna see how it works out, because it will be really important. Morgan is raising a hand.  
Speaker 17    00:31:49    Yeah, thank you. I'll do that. Sweet something that stood out in our group and group feel free to chime in. Please. We can speak together on this, but it was pointed out that we're aiming to do a lot of collective work. We're aiming to leverage the 99%. We are aiming to change structures within DAO that have caused a lot of community and worldwide violence. So figuring out how to work together and streamline communication and care and share resources and not take up too much space and make sure that you can like be in healthy relationship with one another. We need to up our capacity to be able take on that complexity. Then that complexity it'll be inherently. There's gonna be conflict present cuz we're navigating super complex problems together. The need is high. That there is a mutual expression of gratitude of being able to practice this with one another. If I miss anything group, please add in, 

(33:02)    
**Speaker 1**:    Please go, Sean.  
Speaker 15    00:33:05    speaking on what she was saying inevitably we're gonna have disagreements and this is something I brought up in our breakup group as well. It's, I don't, we need to differentiate between like a disagreement and a conflict. Because not all disagreements are conflicts. If we go into a situation thinking, oh, this is a conflict then like we're automatically like labeling it that way. I feel like that sets the stage in our minds to have it like escalate. Whereas if we come into saying Hey, this, I disagree with this person. This is saying, but I want to maybe stay humble and hear them out. It just, I don't know, for me, it just changes the perception of that situation when we don't automatically call it a conflict.  

(33:56)    
**Speaker 1**:    Amazing. All what you've said, you will encounter something that resonates with you within this training. This training has a very diverse offers within the sessions, but you will find something that can resonate with you and something that you can apply in your everyday life. I will start sharing my screen and I will go to the next point of the agenda where we will make a little debrief on the study plan that we are proposing. It's really interesting also because right now we were more or less setting the expectations of the training. Now we are going to be talking about the moderation of the training and the methodology of the training so that everyone can be like in the same page. This is the third Graviton training. We have to done two other Graviton trainings. Here's the registration spreadsheet. After this, you can call yourself a Graviton and the Graviton, it's the hypothetical quantum of Gravity, a particle that mediates the force of gravitational interaction. Why we are Gravity because if people in a community starts getting the themselves apart from each other, we try to be that force that helps people to come together into, with communication into the same ground.  

(35:41)    
**Speaker 1**:    This is an, the Gravity style interactions designed by DOAs. That has three main moments. It's our methodology of this, of all these sessions, where we have first a curation moment where we have set some literature for each session. Then we have a moderator who is someone who has a unique point of view and expertise on the context and will hold the space for the session. Then we have a cross pollination, where is that? Each session also has a moment for a yes and discussion for exchanges and connection. That way we go into a participation and co-creation dynamic also where after the pollinate, cross-pollination we initiate again the creation phase. What I like about being able to talk about conflict management is that it's a really wide topic. We don't have to always have like the same speech or the same facilitators.  

(37:01)    
**Speaker 1**:    But if you feel that you want that you have something to share in the next iterations of the training, you can also come to this curation phase and say, Hey, I want to facilitate a session that there's something that I have to give. That it's inside me also that after this training, the Graviton should be able to make an effort to be present and accessible to their community, bringing high five and promoting relationship of trust, separating people from problems. Sometimes that's one of the key things that happen. Is that when we see a problem, we say, Hey, that problem is that person. We, some are something really important for conflict management is to separate the individuals from the problems. The problems is, are a situation where individuals are participating, but the individuals per se are not the conflict or the problem. They are there. They are agents participating in the situation.  

(38:09)    
**Speaker 1**:    The Graviton should be able to identify themselves and others as equals the Graviton should be able also to solve the terminate from all parties and recognize management points, promote empathy between conflicting parties, adapt their mindset for tolerance to conflictive situations, proposed alternatives with, to deal with paradoxes and according to institutional regulations, while implementing actions to frame unwanted behavior with enrollment boundaries. Basically DAO are really autonom organizations, the centralized autonomous organizations, but that autonom autonomously also creates a bit of this gray area where we don't know what are the boundaries. One thing that we promote in Gravity is that each organization should also support their conflict management with a policy development. Because when you have like institutional regulations in inside a community, you can have like a common truth. That can be, that can be like a point of reference for the community.  

(39:30)    
**Speaker 1**:    But if you don't have institutional regulations regarding conflict in your community, maybe it will fall into that E everyone can be right. There's no objective source to stand on. , because everything is objective, everyone is right. It's not only having the mindset to promote empathy, but also to create the environment where there are clear rules that act like as a social contract. One key question that gives legitimacy to all these work is that really all laws are social contracts. The fact that we can make social contracts in dos, it's also a way that we can manage the behavior inside the community, inside the community, and create like boundaries where we can predict and promote the wanted behavior and sanction the unwanted behavior. The objective of this training is also that you are able to use in a basic level of competence, the conflict management framework developed by Gravity without all the different tooling liberating structures and the democracy, and also understanding this framework.  

(41:01)    
**Speaker 1**:    That is the four piece that has different moments and aspects within the transformational process. This four P framework is developed by Gravity based on model, a previous model that was called the PPP model. It's very used for within the Harvard school, but here we added a four P that is possible solution. What are the four PS are people problem, process, and possible solutions. When you go through the training, you will notice that these are the models that we will be going through. We, and we will be when we are analyzing a conflict it's, these are like the four key things that will help you map the situation and understand, and look for possible solutions. As I said, initially separating people from the problem, but also recognizing what is the process that is happening inside the conflict and the possible solutions. This is very practical. In the second session, I will give you, okay, this is the first session. We are doing all these like expectation settings and the methodology presentation of the models and getting to know the people. In the second session, in the second session will be DOAs talking about the colonization, complexity and ified thinking. Do you want to talk a bit, make a brief explanation of your model ATAs and also invite people to check this content for your session?  
Speaker 19    00:42:48    Yeah, so my training is in, I lived in a Hindu monastery and non-dual philosophy. I asked myself a question can I live my life in that? Can I build a building like this? Can I talk to people about it? Can I write about it? Can I talk about it in cryptocurrency? I really just came in as an experiment and it somehow worked out. A lot of what I'm talking about is taking the duality and using it against itself to create a harmony inside of there. Right? My approach is fundamentally subversive the ideas that you take, these two dualities, which seem like they're in conflict and find a way to actually mash them up in such a fashion, is that not only do you get resolution to the duality, but you also get like an understanding of the diaspora of potential generative things that can come from that.  
Speaker 19    00:43:49    And so, and my model relies on the hemisphere of the brain and some other things. Also I apply that to DAOs generally. I find that most people come from like this extractive abusive side, and they want to just call themselves a DAO. What about all the stuff in the middle? And Gravity is a big step toward unlearning some of those habits that we learned in the previous extractive systems. So I'm trying to apply that same resolution principle of using dualities subversively against themselves. I have a lot of models and graphics that I've made supporting that stuff. I've been working with Wonka on Gravity for over a year and a half now, I think. It's been he and I really, from the beginning, 

(44:44)    
**Speaker 1**:    Thank you do, and you will, you all will love his designs and his infographics. I really love the one that looks like a pendulum and that what you were saying using duality against itself and how we are moving within that pendulum. We can also somehow try to place ourselves in a place where we can use that duality against itself the way that we swing in a swing you make that counterforce to make it that it like makes you meet your intentions. Then the third session will be led by Morgan. Would you like to talk a bit about your session?  
Speaker 17    00:45:44    Most definitely. I'm on my phone. I'm navigating this. Here we go. The session that I'll be leading will be based around getting to know how our bodies have ended up participating pretty complicitly in systems of violence together and noting what hardwired tools we have to be able to consciously engage in consensual relationships with one another, as a repairative action, to the kinds of trauma that we've experienced in previous organizations or in our relationships and within the systems of oppression that co act on the day to day basis. We'll be like narrowing it down to how you can use your body as the most powerful tool to support the work that you're up to create trauma informed relationships, thus, those relationships build culture. Super Stok to share with that with you all. Did I miss anything?  

(46:47)    
**Speaker 1**:    It that's good. This is the first module where we will be talking about the people aspect of this four P framework and the 14th of June, we will have DK. I don't know if he's in this room, but he will be talking about Nonviolent Communication. Nonviolent Communication is a framework developed by Marshall Rosenberg that gives us like really practical ways of communicating without violence and trying to promote what it's giving from the heart. We will have like a summary of the principles of Nonviolent Communication, but we will also have like a small practice where we will try to have the same argument and make it into a Nonviolent Communication phrase, because sometimes we are not really aware of that, but we can say multiple things. We can say the same thing, multiple ways, and the way that we express our message is almost as important as the message itself.  

(48:02)    
**Speaker 1**:    You can tell someone, I love you, but if you do that, hitting them, you are, or yelling to them. You are not being coherent with the message and the intent and the wording and that you are using. Marshall Rosenberg talks about the, this ner process that it's observation, feelings, needs and requests, and it's a practice and a framework that helps you, not only when you are speaking to someone, but also when you're listening to someone, because sometimes we express something and we have some needs and we want those needs to be met, but we never mention our needs. It's also very effective in the way of that. If you want something, you have to be able to express your, that needs, and also make honest requests instead of imposing something. Also when someone is talking to you should also make like an observation phase and sometimes processing through the noise and getting the real signal of the, other of what the other person is saying and relating to the feelings of everyone as equals and as equally valid.  

(49:29)    
**Speaker 1**:    Yeah, after that session, that will be the 14th of June. We will jump into the problem side of the picture. This is something that I am really proud for giving you. It's a Graviton guide, and it's a step by step guide for mediation in DAO. This will be like a gift for you that yeah, you are participating in this training. The idea is that with these simple slides, you will be able to, at least when you face a conflict, at least have some proposed alternatives towards having a proactive reaction and a proactive response to that conflict. Here we have deliberating structural toolbox that Jeremy will tell us more about. Here we have like the four piece and some key factors that you can identify in each of the four piece the people problem, process, and possible solutions. When you are mapping possible solutions like exploring alternative paths, also, you have hear some guiding questions when you are talking with someone regarding a conflict, and you want to have information. Here are some guiding questions, and also like a first approach of if you want to mediate in a situation, how to approach, how to approach someone that you're, that you're wanting to have a private meeting with.  

(51:08)    
**Speaker 1**:    This will be like the gift for you. The idea for is that you apply this Graviton guide in the ninth session, you, we will make study groups. The idea is that each of the study groups can select one conflict and apply the four piece framework to that conflict to identify who is the people, what is the problem? What is the process that is happening and what are some possible solutions? This is a homework that you will have for the ninth session to apply the four framework to a chosen conflict. All these are literature that more or less support, and that are really interconnected to the philosophy behind Gravity and to the process that we have in the Gravity guide. This is what I was talking earlier, support conflict management with policy development, also conflict transformation, a framework that it's called the balcony bridge and third side that it's getting to, yes, in challenging times, this is a really cool video. Also media mediation skills, reconciliation that I really like to participate, and that we will do at some point in the training and some blog post, and also some working progress that we are doing that will improve the legitimacy of the agreements that we have in Gravity. Then we will have lean. Would you like to give a little overview of your prac of your session lean?  

(52:53)    
**Speaker 0**:    Sure. I can just quickly introduce deep democracy. Deep democracy is a mindset and it's a toolbox. What it does is it's a toolbox to create group dynamics and special about deep democracy is that it looks like at the way, you include voices in your decision making processes and how democratic your group is in making decisions. Yeah, I'll, I'm happy to spend a session on what it is and how you can use it in your meetings and how you, and hopefully at the end of the hour, how you can include the no voices in your group. Because very often in meetings, we hear a lot of LA Lala and then suddenly there's a Lee, and we always call that the annoying person. Now, how can you use the wisdom that is hiding in that one person that is sometimes causing conflict, or a bit of unease and uncomfort, how can we add the wisdom in that person hiding in that person into the decision?  

(54:00)    
**Speaker 1**:     

(54:01)    
**Speaker 0**:    I will show you a bit of that in that  

(54:04)    
**Speaker 1**:    I am really amazed by that session and talking about the iceberg and the waterline, the resistance line, those are really cool concepts. Then we will come into the module of process and LOI. She's also an expert in dispute resolution, and she's leading the conflict resolution efforts in GI Bitcoin. She will be having a talk about the centralized dispute resolution and why it's important to have accountability, why it's important to have conflict. Why building trust is a key part for resolving conflict. Also talking about what the restorative justice circles methodologies. Then we will have Jeremy with really practical sessions about liberating structures. He will be talking about deliberating structures and making some dynamics like the one we need today, but I will open the space for you, Jeremy, if you want to say something  
Speaker 20    00:55:13    Damn right, liberating structures are a set of tools that you can use to share thinking and effectively distribute group consciousness and awareness. We're gonna, we're gonna be hoping to fast track and introduce a state of being and awareness called process mindfulness. That is a collective metacognition. To enable you to really step into the possibility space and become conscious designers, if not only your own experience, but actually the entire group's experience. Fuck with me, come hang out.  

(55:54)    
**Speaker 1**:    Okay. Then we will go to the last module of the training that is looking for possible solutions. This is the more practical area of the training. In the ninth session, you will have to make a presentation using the four piece framework. We will have like groups and each group will have five to 10 minutes to present the application of the four piece framework to a conflict. You Cho, you can choose truly, okay, this is the conflict that my children are facing, that they are fighting over an orange, or this is the conflict that I am experiencing in my organization where the no voices aren't being included. With the tools that you have from the training, the idea is that you can make a presentation of what was your initial perception of a conflict and how with these toolings, you can at least take it to a more mature stage of comprehension.  

(56:55)    
**Speaker 1**:    And then in the 10th session, me and Jeremy will make a role play. The idea is that we have had mediation in 24 cases right now in the data space. What I will do, what we will do is that we will take some of these cases, take the names off and have you play those scenarios that actually happened in the DAO space. You will, and you will, you won't have like all the same conflict. We will. I will try to assign at least five different conflicts so that you will have like the time to deal with this conflict, to role play it. Then when we make a debrief in the big, in the big room, you will be able to hear other conflicts and other, and how were they tackled using the different tools that we have because also for the, for solving conflicts, it's not one tool fits for all.  

(58:00)    
**Speaker 1**:    It's like each conflict has a different approach and we will give you like different conflicts and you will have to, you will have the opportunity to listen to the others and to the other conflicts. With that, we end the training and that's the stage one of the Graviton path where you ha can call yourself a Graviton, but if you continue gaining experience within our educational activities, because we also have book clubs, practice groups, coordination calls, and if you feel the agency and that you want to continue contributing, you can become an active Graviton and manage conflict in your community. You can say, okay, I am in this DAO. If someone has a conflict, I can be a easy access, a conflict management agent to have this first approach. You can have also like a group to rely on, but also the intention to help on this coordination and this conflictive issues.  

(59:14)    
**Speaker 1**:    This is the explanation of the training. I hope you feel motivated. I really look forward to see this presentation of the analysis of a conflict. I also think that the people that is going to facilitate the sessions are expert on that area. I really like that. It's not like a monopoly of a speech. We will have really different voices and that I am sure that after this training, you will have a lot of, a lot of new things learned and a lot of tools to put in practice. With that, we can wrap up this first session and thanking you all for your present.  

(00:03)    
**Speaker 9**:    Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you so much. Get the, thank you. I see you. Thanks. Thank you. Take care. Bye. Thanks. Thank you everyone.  

(00:40)    
**Speaker 1**:    Thank yous  

(00:42)    
**Speaker 9**:    Travels, everybody. 
